Codex

  James, Chase, Raziel and El spent the next several days preparing for the trip to the Rigel system.  El estimated that the shuttlecraft would arrive in four days, which gave them some time to breathe before their next trial, but still, none of them felt particularly eager to depart.
  Bac and the rest of the base personnel kept vigilance high for the next days.  As Bac had stated, there was a high risk that the shuttle could lead unwelcome attention to the southern continent.  Both the outposts along the southern region and those stationed near the primary Sphynx installations continued to report that no Sphynx attention was headed in their direction.  Com chatter among Sphynx sources never mentioned the battle at all, a detail that worried Bac considerably.  In any case, despite his reluctance to support their venture, Bac offered to supply them with provisions for the trip, and admonished them to return the shuttle to Resistance control.  He only tried to talk El out of joining them once, but he was clearly well enough acquainted with El to realize that it was a futile gesture.
  Raziel possessed no maps or other helpful artifacts from his employment on Rigel's moon.  Much like the cleanup work that had been done to Alice's friends and co-workers, his memory had been purged of all recollection of any procedures or passcodes related to the Codex when his contract had expired.  James had assumed that the lack of a non-disclosure clause had been an oversight, but apparently Siren had merely taken a much more direct approach to the problem of information leaks.
  They had borrowed one of the base's small meeting rooms for preparation work.  Raziel projected the information he still knew point by point onto a shared hologram, while James and Chase asked for clarifications or details.
  "The Codex moon is barren and atmosphereless, much like Earth's."  He summoned an image into the projection: a gray sphere pocked with crater impacts rotated lazily in the projection's focus.  "Approaching it directly would be highly unwise.  Our ship has no stealth or camouflage capabilities.  In fact, its disabled IFF and location beacon is a magnet for armed response, as you witnessed firsthand.  The Codex installation itself resides half above the surface," a network of glass domes and tunnelways spread across one of the sphere's hemispheres, "and half below ground.  I expect that the room containing our objective is in this area."  He pointed, and a red cube manifested within the moon's heart, flashing.
  "You recommend landing on the world below, and getting to the moon from the surface somehow?" Chase asked.
  "That would be my preference."  Raziel panned the view out, shrinking the moon to reveal a much larger translucent sphere of blue and green beside it.  "Rigel III is a lush world.  Most of its surface area is covered by swamp or rainforest.  In addition to a small lowlands Siren presence, Lion, the research and development company, operates a sizable base there.  I believe that Pegasus also owns a number of mines.  Rigel III's crust is particularly rich in materials that can be used in the refinement of starship fuel.  So it's far from unsettled.  However, as far as I know, all of the settlement on Rigel is on its largest landmass in the northern hemisphere.  The south-eastern island arpeggio barely has enough solid ground to build on.  If we time our approach carefully, we might be able to land the shuttle while the bulk of the planet shields us from the moon, and gain the surface undetected."
  "How do we make it to the Siren base, then?" James asked.
  "I could arrange to borrow four hoverbikes," El offered suddenly.  "We stole them from Sphynx during heavier fighting years ago.  Some of our more isolated bases here on Mintaka use them for long-distance travel from time to time.  It's been a long time since it's been safe to use them here, though.  Jungle and ocean won't bother them, and we should be able to make it to the northern continent in half of a day or so."
  Raziel indicated thanks.  "That will do nicely," he said.  "They'll make the shuttle bay cramped for us, but they should fit.  The other settlements regularly sell supplies to Siren.  It may be possible for us to take advantage of one to get into orbit from there.  Beyond that, as I've said, we'll need to improvise."
  James smiled grimly.

  James was helping Raziel haul the bikes into the shuttle's primary storage when he finally asked for more details about Raziel's history with Alice.  The wind had died down somewhat from their arrival, making the chore less dangerous, but storm clouds still boiled overhead.
  "I met her at a conference," Raziel said.  "It was only a few years ago.  I was assigned to protect one of the speakers, whose name I do happen to be under contract not to divulge.  We went on a few dates together.  My livelihood is... not an ideal one, to support a relationship.  We tried to stay in touch, but I haven't really heard from her since."
  "Is that why you sought me out?" James asked.
  "No," Raziel replied.  "I was given your contract just like any other.  It mentioned only your name and your ident, nothing about who was after you or why.  I didn't hear about Alice until you and Chase told me."
  "Why didn't you mention this earlier?"
  Raziel paused, as they hefted the bulk of a bike up the ramp.  "It didn't seem relevant," he said.  "Call it professionalism.  It doesn't change my duties, or my ability to execute them.  It doesn't present a conflict of interest.  So I didn't see a need to bring it up."
  "That's still kind of cold."
  "As you prefer."  They gave a shove together, sliding the bike's inert chassis along the shuttle floor to clear the lip of the ramp's opening.  James caught his breath, hands on his knees, brushing accumulated sand from his shirt.  "Coldness allows me to keep my head in a firefight, and improves my tactical aptitude.  It has kept me from losing a client many times over the years.  If it makes me less pleasant company, then that's just the cost that I need to pay."
  "Fair enough," James admitted.
  "Three more bikes to store," Raziel said, pointing his thumb back to the base's entrance.

  Before they knew it, the shuttle was packed and the team was prepared.  Chase gave the ship's computer several largely redundant scans, hoping to find any renegade tracking or surveillance software stashed in its core, but every scan returned with reassuring green lights.
  "It's not that I don't trust your thoroughness," she told Raziel.  "And it's not that I think we got the shuttle too easily.  I just feel like I'm going to overlook something glaringly obvious that gives us away, and they'll shoot us out of the sky before we ever land."
  Raziel suggested that they cut goodbyes short and leave as soon as possible to stem their nervous energy.  The others agreed with him.  The party performed a final check with the surveillance team for a clean exit path, braved the re-energized storm, and boarded their craft.  Raziel sat in the pilot's seat; Chase settled in to the co-pilot's.  As predicted, even stacked two by two, the hoverbikes occupied most of the rear compartment, but James and El made themselves as comfortable as they could in the remaining space.
  The shuttle lifted gently from the sandy soil at Raziel's touch on the control yoke.  The roaring wind outside howled louder than the engines as they passed the atmospheric layer of dark cloud.  As the shuttle crested the top of the clouds, the wind noise dropped and the instrument panel sprang into usefulness.  They rose smoothly to orbit, unchallenged and presumably unnoticed.  Chase began entering the coordinates of their destination: virtual star charts spun within her HUD.
  A sharp tug on the control yoke pulled the ship out of its stable orbit and careening wildly into the starlit sky.  James slid into a bulkhead and Chase cried out in surprise.
  "Interceptors," Raziel announced, his voice tense and controlled.  A pair of angular grey craft mirrored his maneuver.  Tiny bursts of light lit points along their pursuers' wings.  Chase realized belatedly that the other craft was firing on them and missing... so far.  "Punch in another destination, any destination."  She rapidly complied.
  Raziel eased on the interstellar drive.  A warning snap sounded throughout the shuttle's interior as one of the pursuing crafts' shots found its mark, just as the shuttle sprang ahead, stars blurring together into a rainbow cloak.
  Chase held her breath as they flew.  Realistically, the chances of her having charted them through the center of a star were impossibly remote.  It didn't stop her heart from pounding.
  After just a few minutes, he eased them back to a saner speed.  The stars faded into a blanket of distant, motionless pin pricks: they were deep in interstellar space, already lightyears from their point of origin.  Chase released her breath and somewhat more calmly resumed entering in their true destination.  There was a dizzying moment as the ship spun on three axes to reorient itself precisely, then another touch of the yoke sent them careening on their way.

  A digital display mounted above the open cockpit hatch steadily counted off the days, hours, minutes, and seconds until they reached their programmed destination.  El laughed at it.
  "It counts Earth time," he explained.  "Humans take their clocks with them wherever they go.  Even on Mintaka, twenty four hour days, three hundred sixty five and a quarter day years.  It's still in your blood, I think."
  "That may be," James said, contemplatively.  "I didn't know that we had interstellar flight until about a week ago, you recall."
  "That's right, I'm the first alien you've ever met, aren't I?"
  James nodded.  "Why do they keep all of this secret, anyway?" he asked, waving his hand to indicate the ship, and by extension the known universe.
  "Profit, I would expect," answered Chase.
  El agreed.  "An Earthbound corporation has a finite set of resources to draw from, finite real estate to build on.  An interstellar corporation has an incredible amount of raw materials to find.  Also, they can readily use massive amounts of slave labor without fear of PR reprecussions."  He pointed his thumb at his chest.  "So, profit."
  As predicted, they had several days to spend together before they would arrive in the Rigel system.  With Chase's help, Raziel had done some calculations and made microadjustments to their ship's pacing to arrive when Rigel III and its moon would be in a favorable orientation.  Then it was time to wait.  James graciously offered the use of his library to the others.  James passed most of his time reading and trying to keep his mind off of their destination.  Chase alternated restlessly between reading with him, talking with El, and sitting in the corner with her eyes shut, programming who knows what.  El and Raziel spent a fair amount of time playing match after match of chess, using a holographic set that Raziel provided.
  The shuttle had no sleeping quarters, so sleeping was awkward, but not overly uncomfortable.  James and Chase preferred to rest in the cargo bay in a gap that had been left along the bikes.  Raziel slept sitting in the pilot's chair, and El did his cross-legged meditative stance near the cabin hatch.
  All too soon, the countdown above the hatch reached hours, then minutes.  Raziel and Chase resumed their places in the cabin.  James joined them, out of an equal mix of nerves and curiosity.  Only El stayed in the shuttle's bay, his eyes half lidded, his alien composure betraying no lack of confidence.

  The motion of Rigel III and its moon gave them a broad window of time in which they could safely make their approach, but the closer that they cut it, the less distance they would need to travel once they made it to the surface.  Raziel had timed it carefully.  By his calculations, they should have about fifteen minutes' worth of a grace period before the moon would rise into view and enemy sensors could pick up the ship's emissions.
  The counter on the bulkhead touched zero just as the rainbows receded once more into individual stars.  The aquamarine mass of the planet flooded their forward viewport.  The massive sun Rigel was visible as a golden dime peeking over the gentle curve of the planet's horizon, casting bright illumination over the land below.  Rigel III expanded through a cloud of hazy flame as they descended into the atmosphere.  As hoped, the radio was silent.  They'd made it into reentry unchallenged.
  Powerful thrusters slowed their descent as their landing zone appeared before them: a tropical island, pristine and isolated, at the tip of a long archipelago.  Palm trees swayed as the shuttle gently touched down to the sand.  The landing pad extended and the four occupants stepped outside under the warmth of the rising sun.
  Chase breathed the ocean air deeply and stretched.  "Nice place," she said.  "Well, let's get the bikes out."
  El watched his three companions drag the bikes out of the craft.  Once they were free of each other and the drives wouldn't interfere, James walked from bike to bike, flicked the power switch on each.  The bikes shuddered and lifted themselves to a low hover.  He straddled one, donned a helmet, and gestured to the others to do the same.  El looked particularly out of place on his human-sized bike.
  [I'll take point,] Chase offered.  [The net tells me that Lion installation D7C has the next scheduled shipment bound for Siren.  I have its coordinates already entered.]
  [You're sure the shuttle will be secure here?] asked James.  [I'd rather not be caught without an escape route.]
  [It's about as secure as it can be.  If it's not, we're in trouble anyway,] Raziel pointed out grimly.
  They eased on their throttles together, forming a bent diamond formation behind Chase.  Kilometer after kilometer of calm ocean blazed past their feet.  The shuttle vanished over the horizon behind them in minutes.
  It took them most of the day to reach the outermost spans of the northern continent.  It looked as though a forest, lifted atop tangled roots, was trying to invade the now-muddy water.  Chase gestured as they approached its fringes.  Their hoverbikes bumped smoothly to a higher altitude and they flew along the treetops.
  The trees gave way to densely forested swamplands below them and they began to see signs of human settlement.  Chase started to pick up more and more com chatter from nearby settlements, and soon they started to see shuttles lifting off and landing at a port in the distance.  Chrome buildings poked through the treetops.  Verifying the readout on her destination marker, Chase threw her bike into a wide arc.  They eased their altitude down and touched the bikes down in a grassy lot at the outskirts of a small city in the middle of the jungle.
  The bikes hid neatly in a nearby alley, covered by a survival tarp, the four arrivals stood in the city street.  Other passersby gave them no notice.  James thought this was strange, until he say the focused expression on El's face.
  "I can maintain a shield for us as long as nobody does anything particularly crazy," he paused to give Raziel a look, "initiates conversation, or anything like that.  It's... not trivial, though.  I would advise you to move quickly."
  Heeding his advice, they set off to follow Chase's lead once again.  She assured them that their destination was nearby.  On the horizon, the moon crested the horizon, looming huge in the crystal clear sky.  They came to an unassuming warehouse in a busy quarter of the city, a low concrete building.  A stylized lion decal marked its side in faded golden paint.  El waved them urgently inside.  The door was unlocked, and the watchman didn't even give them a disinterested glance as they entered.
  The building was filled with a rainbow of brightly colored containers, each distinctly marked with long strings of stencilled digits.  Chase cast her gaze along the rows, looking for a particular pattern; finding it, she gestured the rest to help her get it open.  James grabbed a crowbar and pried open a half-rusted latch.  As they'd hoped, the container hadn't been quite filled; the primary constraint here was weight, not volume.  Metallic cubes lined the container's bottom, leaving the four of them ample room to fit inside.  They left the container door cracked as long as they dared, trying to maximize the life of the air within the container while minimizing the risk of bumping into one of the loading crew.
  Several long hours of waiting later, a gentle bump startled James out of a half-asleep reverie.  Gravity shifted within the container as it was lifted at an angle by what he could only assume was a forklift.  During the first part of the trip to orbit, he tried to guess what was happening by the muffled sounds and changing orientations of the container.  Once Chase noticed what he was doing, she helped by sharing a feed she was intercepting from the shuttle crew and local flight coordinators.  He and the others listened idly to what sounded like a completely routine run.  The feed broke the monotony somewhat, but it also served to warn them to brace themselves when the container was about to shift again, saving some minor bruising.
  The trip into orbit ended the way it had begun: with several hours of waiting, as base personnel and the shuttle's crew used hoverdollies to unload the full load of cargo around them.  Then, at last, all was silent.  Once El assured them that no minds were in a position to watch the cargo hold, James popped the hatch with a grunt.

  A small forest of boxy containers surrounded them under a low glass ceiling.  Above them, a canopy of brilliant stars was dominated by the bulk of Rigel III, glimmering irridescent in the sky with reflected sunlight.  James caught his breath at the sight, forgetting for a moment the danger he was in.
  The room had two exits.  One led to the shuttle bay behind them.  Through the intervening walls of glass, they could clearly see the bustle of passengers and commuters still unloading from the sizable bulk of the shuttle that had presumably been their unwitting ride.  The other connected to the rest of the base via what looked like a service entrace, through a small decontamination vestibule.  Green LEDs were visible on the decontamination room's entrance and exit, although James had little doubt that it also served as a security checkpoint, and wouldn't stay green long after they tried to pass.
  [Chase?] he asked, pointing to the room.  She nodded and got to work.
  [I can't get a login,] she admitted after a tense minute.  [I've tried everything I could without raising an alarm.  Came a little too close to that already.]
  [Alright,] said Raziel.  [I'll get it.]  He ducked the rest of the way to the exit, gliding lithely from container to container.  The others followed.  James wondered if something had come back to him from his days working here.  When they caught up to him, he was already levelling a hand weapon at the clearly visible camera in the next room, through the glass panelling separating the two.  Before anyone could stop him, he pulled the trigger.  The weapon was silenced; the only sound that followed was a gentle tinkle of falling glass, and the frustrated buzz of interrupted electronics.  He paused a moment, waiting for an alarm to sound or the door to lock.  When nothing happened, he shrugged, and ducked forward to the door.  The entrance dilated open at his touch without a protest.  The others followed, incredulous.
  The far door also slid open without difficulty.
  [Not how I would have designed the security systems, but I'll take it,] Raziel commented to the others.
  The corridor beyond dipped gently lower, leading them gradually further and further beneath the surface.  Florescence replaced reflected sunlight as their light source as they made their way deeper into the base.  Eventually, they came to another door with another green LED.  El confirmed that the room beyond was also unoccupied with the slightest of frowns.  The four entered warily.  This was a lobby of sorts for the lower floors of the base, an octagonal space with an empty ring of a desk sitting squatly in the room's center.  Three more doors were seated in other walls, each flashing a contented green LED.
  [Something's not right--] began James.  As one, all four door lights winked blood red.
  A man appeared in the center of the desk.  Raziel's reflexive shot passed harmlessly through his eye and lodged in the ceiling beyond.  He was tall, hatchet-faced, and dressed in a formal suit of impeccable taste.  He didn't even flinch.
  "Hologram," snarled Raziel.
  "Of course," said the man casually.  "Did you think I'd be there to greet you in person?"
  "Who are you?" demanded James.
  "I'll ask the questions," he reprimanded them with sudden sternness.  "Not that I need to ask many.  James Hawk, Chase Duvier, Raziel Nast, Eltok."
  [I suppose I really shouldn't have shot that camera...] Raziel began.
  "Don't be too hard on yourself, Nast.  We've been expecting you for some time, really.  Once intelligence reported that you were working with these fools, it's only natural that you would lead them here.  All that we had to do was wait.
  "I do have to thank you for taking the quiet way in," he continued, mockingly.  "So much easier to convince you that you were evading our defenses.  We didn't need to waste dozens of soldiers to keep you advancing.
  "I suppose that it's only polite to introduce myself.  My name is Gregory, chief security officer of Sphynx International."
  He watched, amused, as Chase furiously tried to gain a foothold in their network, eyes closed and brow furrowed intently.
  "You've already escaped from one of our prisons.  I won't give you the chance to escape from another."  A high-pitched whine rose to punctuate his words.  A mechanical buzz sounded all around them.  Covers high on four of the walls lifted, to reveal the muzzles of four emplaced guns.
  Raziel grabbed James and dove behind the desk, right at Gregory's projected feet.  El and Chase followed a split second behind.  Automatic gunfire filled the air like an angry hailstorm.  The desk shielded them from instant death, but a few stray bullets punctured its material, warning them that their cover was far from perfect.
  Raziel's eyes half-lidded as he sought to recall the room's layout.  With a rapid motion of his wrist, he tossed a grenade over the desk's surface.  A moment later, a sharp bang was followed by a noticable lessening in the volume of the gunfire.  He nodded satisfaction, ignored Gregory's mocking eyes, and tossed another.  Two guns down, two to go.
  James frowned.  He could hear the piercing whine more clearly now over the diminished gunfire, and more worryingly, he felt a breeze...  "The bastard's draining our air!" he shouted.
  Already, the room's oxygen supply was growing light.  Grey spots appeared on Chase's vision as she tried to fill her lungs.  Raziel took a chance and hauled his head over the protective barrier of the desk for a moment, gun in hand.  Two shots rendered the other guns inoperable before they could compensate and track to his location.  By now, air was flooding from the room in a hurricane.  Abruptly, all was silent.
  James watched Chase curl in on herself, eyes working furiously behind the lids.
  One door's signal light flicked green.  Gregory frowned and disappeared.
  [Chase, you're the best!] he signalled, grabbing her arm and hauling her toward it.  Raziel and El followed.  Sure enough, the door opened easily, a flood of air greeting their hungry lungs.  They hurried through and collapsed against the corridor wall as the door slid shut behind them.
  "Fantastic timing," James said again, kissing Chase.
  "That wasn't me," she said, shaking her head.  "I still can't get online."

  Light after light blinked green in their path as they advanced through the corridor.  They passed more emplaced guns, sitting squatly at key junction points in their path.  Raziel hadn't been kidding when he described this base as one of the most highly secured in the world, but none opened fire.  James took the liberty of removing key parts as they passed, with the hope of making their escape a little more possible.
  "We're being herded," El observed darkly.  "I don't like this."
  "I don't think we have much choice," Chase answered.
  They came to an intersection that, for once, wasn't barricaded with steel doors.  Raziel, in point, took a step forward, only to come to a sudden halt as another pair of guns down the hall spat a cluster of warning shots at his feet.
  "Not this way, I suppose..." he muttered.
  "It doesn't make sense to guide us into another ambush," James commented.  "I suppose there's a chance that Gregory is playing with us.  It seems like a costly game for him, though."
  "I can't sense anything around us," El said warily.  "Either this base is deserted, or the people who work at this level are unaugmented."
  The endless corridors that sprawled beneath the surface were labyrinthine in complexity.  James was lost in moments.  Even Raziel was disoriented.  Chase belatedly contemplated recording as she walked to replay later when they were finding their way out.  This facility was locked down much more effectively than the Intech base had been: they caught no furtive glimpses into offices or labs, nothing that could give them clues about layout or purpose.
  Once, a door to the side opened as they walked by.  Through it was a shallow room, more of a closet, lined with firearms and ammunition.  With a shrug, James chose a pistol.  El and Raziel simultaneously went for the railgun rack, the bulky weapon comical in El's small arms.  Chase remained unarmed.
  It took them a solid hour to reach the Codex.  Chase's HUD told her that they had only travelled a few kilometers from the landing pad.
  A wide pair of double doors slid noiselessly open at their approach to reveal a wide, cylindrical room.  Stepping inside, they could see that the ceiling was a sheet of glass, hundreds of meters overhead.  The floor was lit from below by a symmetric network of lines, providing a soft, diffuse illumination to completement the natural light entering from above.  The room was largely empty except for its very center.  There, a modest pillar stood alone.  A soft hum, just at the edge of enhanced hearing, permeated the space.
  Raziel stopped the others with a raised hand.  He produced a canister from his jacket and sprayed the air in front of him.  Dust swirled, revealing... nothing.  He frowned, replaced the canister, and strode on.
  Chase rushed ahead to the pillar.  Sure enough, set into its smooth top was a small family of familiar connectors, standard jacks compatible with the last decade or so of neural interface augs.  James, taking a cue from Raziel's caution, stopped her and peered at the connectors suspiciously.
  "It's trapped," he said, pointing to a pair of extra pins that framed the connector's edge.  He poked one, producing a fat spark.  "Just a moment..."   He pulled a spare piece of metal he'd taken from one of the guns in the hall out of his pocket, wrapped his hand in his sleeve, and connected the offending leads.  There was a crack and the sizzle of electric discharge.  Shaking his hand, he nodded.  "It looks clean enough.  Of course, there's a very good chance that the system is armed to the hilt with logic bombs, too."
  "It seems whatever will brought us this far was unable to lift the impediments here," El noted.
  "You'll never be able to pull me off in time if it fries me," Chase said.  She laughed nervously.  "I'm glad I upgraded Paranoiac before we left."
  James swallowed.  "Let me connect instead," he said.  She waved him away good naturedly, took a deep breath, and jacked in.
  The first sound she made was a laugh.  "Attack vector blocked," she said, making a victory motion with her fist.  Her expression turned to dismay.  "Shit."
  "What?  What is it?"
  "Oh, it's just a login screen.  My password crackers haven't been any good thus far..."  Her voice trailed off as she concentrated.  "Wait.  Seriously?"
  As the system logged her in, she projected the view and toggled the password entry to clear text, showing the others the account credentials she'd produced.  Raziel put his palm to his forehead.

PANDORA135

  "Really?  I mean... really?"  The Codex was hers to access and, if the screen told the truth, command.
  Not knowing how much time their unseen benefactor would grant them, she set to work dumping everything in the system to her internal storage.  There were trillions of keys, but each was only a few kilobytes long, with a small set of metadata describing the systems and data they protected.  She had to clear some space on her internal storage, but the transfer took minutes.  As a measure of prudence, she replicated it to the other three.
  As she enqueued an orderly disconnect, she hesitated just a moment before she fired one mischievous parting command:

rm -rf /

  The hum beneath their feet increased in intensity as the Codex shredded itself from the inside out.

  The LED marking the exit behind them glowed a steady red; whatever force had brought them here apparently wasn't going to lead them back out.  Consternation reigned until Chase remembered that she had just stolen the login credentials for every Siren system in the galaxy.  A moment's query later and she was online.  Information flowed through her from Siren's network.
  "Wait," said Raziel.  "You have access to all of their records and logs?  Everything?"
  Chase nodded confirmation.  "Everything at this facility, anyway.  It's an isolated network.  They only make connections to the outside net at controlled points and limited durations."
  "Look for Alice."
  Chase's eyes lit.  She closed them kicked off a query.  The four stood in the room, waiting.
  "Men are approaching," El said tersely.  "Armed men."  He focused, rubbing his head.  "And I can't fog them, they're shielded."
  "Let's go.  Can you connect while you walk?" Raziel asked.
  "I'll guide you," James said, holding her hand.  Chase opened the door in front of them and they made haste the way down the corridor the way they'd come.
  In a few short seconds the pursuing troops gained visual contact.  Shots pocked the walls around them.  Raziel returned fire as El and James broke into a sprint, James pulling Chase in a stumbling run.  Chase shared her coordinate marker, planted on the nearest hanger bay she could find, a small auxiliary space for private craft.
  "Deneb," she shouted suddenly.  Her eyes opened.  "Alice was routed to Deneb.  It doesn't say what for."  She almost tripped, freed herself from James' grip, and dashed around a corner.  As they passed through a barrier doorway, it slammed shut and audibly locked itself tight.  Raziel started until he realized that Chase was barricading them from their pursuers.
  "That should buy us some time," she said.  "This way."
  She led them into an elevator.  The doors slid open to reveal a man holding a cup of coffee.  Raziel had splattered him against the opposite wall with a railgun discharge before he had a chance to do more than notice them.  Fortunately, the walls here were somewhat sturdier than Intech's, and he didn't do more harm to the opposite wall than a slight dent.
  El shared a glance with James.  "I didn't see him.  Unaugmented."
  The elevator lifted them smoothly through three or four intervening floors before stopping with a soft ding.  The corridors here seemed better-kept: less dusty, soothing lights, carpetting.  From here, a few more meters brought them to the hanger bay.  Chase locked the door behind them as they entered.
  The hanger had a quiet elegance.  An opulent shuttle, suitable for interstellar travel and accommodating three or four passengers, rested on a polished floor of obsidian panelling.  The far wall was a massive glass portal.  Outside, they could see the barren, crater-pocked landscape beyond.  Another internal query found Chase the keys; a thought dropped the shuttle's entrance ramp.
  Gregory strode out, an assault weapon in hand.  This time, he didn't bother trying to taunt them.  He opened fire.
  As one, they dove in four different directions, each trying frantically to find cover.  Gregory leapt about the room, impossibly fast, overcharged with the best electronics that money could buy.  Bullets richocheted about the room, punctuated by the heavy thuds of Raziel and El's railguns.  By unspoken accord, they did their best not to hit the ship, which complicated their aim.  Gregory dodged their fire with effortless ease.
  A burst of Gregory's fire brushed across Raziel's arm.  He cursed loudly, firing payload after payload with his other hand.  El tracked him more steadily with his weapon as Gregory jumped high into the air, over his shuttle's roof, leveling his aim for a killing strike.
  A loud retort echoed in the spacious bay.  Gregory's head jerked with an impact and he went limp in midair.  One of El's final shots caught his corpse full in the chest, obliterating his legs and torso before it completed its fall.
  James looked at his smoking pistol, surprised as much as his companions.
  "Nice shot," said El.
  A guttural noise turned their attention to Raziel.  Raziel's right arm was in poor shape; he'd caught a full burst down his forearm and was bleeding freely.  James thumbed the safety of his weapon on and holstered it, coming to Raziel's side.  With El's help they were able to fashion a makeshift tourniquet of sorts.
  "Let's get the hell out of here," he muttered, teeth gritted in pain.  He struggled to his feet.  Chase helped him upright, slinging his arm around her for support, and together they wobbled unevenly into the waiting craft.

  Everything on the shuttle's interior was top of the line: leather seats, a double bed, a refrigerator stocked with Earth-grown food.  Raziel had eyes for the first aid kit.  As soon as he was within arm's reach of it, he yanked it from the wall, slumped into a decadent easy chair (getting blood all over the upholstery), and went to work with its contents.  He breathed a heavy sigh of relief as the painkillers kicked in.
  "Think you can fly a shuttle, James?" he asked.
  "Well, I could certainly try--"
  "I can pilot adequately, I think," offered El, much to James' relief.  El hurried into the waiting cockpit, seated himself, and took the yoke.  He cast a meaningful glance at Chase.  After an uncomprehending moment, she closed her eyes.  The hanger doors slid smoothly open before them.  El eased on the throttle and the ship slid away from the base.