Incarceration

  James woke in prison.
  His cell was ten meters to a side, floor, ceiling, and three walls of featureless bare concrete.  He didn't even have a bed.  The other wall was a grid of iron bars as thick as his arm.  Dim illumination, off-white, spilled into the cube from the hallway outside.
  Across the hall, another set of bars hatched across another cell.  At first glance, James thought it was empty, but as his eyes adjusted he saw its occupant.  A small child, bald, of indeterminate gender sat cross-legged in the cell's center, regarding him with pale violet eyes.
  "You're awake," the child announced in a soft voice with a musical lilt.
  James rubbed sleep from his eyes.  His neck and his limbs felt unnaturally stiff.  "How long was I unconscious?"
  "Since you were brought here: fourteen hours, twenty five minutes, and thirty one seconds."
  He jumped to his feet as memories returned to him.  "Chase!"  The child gave no response.  He couldn't quite fit his head through the cell bars, and he couldn't see any other adjoining cells from any point in his cube.  Unsurprisingly, his net access was denied as well, feeding his optics just a stark login page.  Just as suddenly as it had taken him, the sudden burst of energy left him.  He sank back to the floor with a deep breath.
  "Who are you?" he asked his companion.
  "El," the child answered.
  "And what are you here for, El?" he asked, curiously.
  "I was a revolutionary."
  "A revolutionary?"
  "We resist the sovereignty of the Sphinx corporation."
  James opened his mouth, then closed it.
  "You were fortunate to conceal the Pandora microchip as you did," the child continued.  "The kill order on your head was replaced by a capture one at the last moment.  Because Intech was unable to confirm which of you and your companions held the chip, it is highly likely that they were captured as well, and not executed."
  "How do you know all of this?" James asked, incredulous.
  "I have certain affinities for augmented nervous systems, and have had ample time while the sedatives held you to scan your thoughts and memories.  I apologize if this is an invasion of your privacy.  It... gets boring in here."  El blinked, sheepishly.
  James had to laugh at the understatement.
  "I expect that you do not have much time left," El continued, sadly.  "Soon, our captors will endeavor to discover the location of the chip, and at that point you and your companions hold no more value."
  "Are they going to interrogate me?" James asked.
  "No.  As soon as your wits return, they will use one of us to extract the knowledge from you."  El's expression tightened.  "I am sorry."
  "How- how long do you think I have?"
  "Another few hours, I would expect.  Possibly more, depending on when your companions regain conciousness."
  Despair gripped James.  He sighed and sank to the floor, lying passive on the warm concrete.

  Elsewhere, Chase stirred in her cell.  She had an end unit.  From the bars at the front of her cage, she could see an endless row of bars on either side of a long hallway, stretching to a perspective point.
  Upon sitting up and stretching, she wasted barely a moment before she started to work with her net connection.  Her weapons, a vast array of tools used to gain access to systems that were intended to keep her out, could not be easily disarmed.  Patiently, she tried program after program, vulnerability after vulnerability and scan after scan, but the network here was as steadfastly guarded as Intech's.  Time after time, she was denied and dumped back at the unadorned login page.
  A thought stirred at the back of her memory.  Surely this network didn't share an authentication server with...

Username: test
Password: ****

  Access granted.

  As hours passed, he sat and tried to put his fate out of mind.  He did a short calisthenics routine with restless energy, trying to work some of the lingering cramp from his muscles.  Otherwise, he mirrored El, sitting quietly on the cell floor and waiting for death.  El barely moved a muscle during the entire duration.  James wondered how he could stand it.
  A deep thock resounded through the cell block, echoed all around them.  James blinked and frowned.  El stood, stretched, and effortlessly lifted his cell door into the ceiling.
  "Hurry," said El, beckoning.
  Unbelieving, James lifted his door aloft, straining just a little against the weight of the heavy iron before the counterweights kicked in.  He stepped out of his cell.

  El strode purposefully through the corridor, passing cell block after cell block.  James followed, assuming that his diminuitive companion knew more about this facility than he did.
  The cells were arranged in a wide grid pattern, with corridors criss-crossing every ten cells.  El turned down one side passage, then another.  As he turned the third time, he stopped abruptly.  As James rounded the corner behind him, he saw why.
  A familiar face greeted him sternly.  Nine feet of one of the enhanced guards blocked their progress.  Both sides were just as surprised to see the other, but the guard recovered first.  He levelled his weapon at first James, then El.  The guard tightened his lips, gestured with the gun, then let out a gurgling noise.
  James and El watched as the guard curled around himself into a ball, choking for breath.  He struggled to lift his weapon inch by inch, finger twitching toward the trigger, but collapsed in a heap before he could pull it.  Chase stepped around from behind him and rushed forward to embrace James.
  James held her tight.  She poked the guard with her toe.  "His heart decided to stop beating," she explained.  "It's good to be root."
  James introduced her briefly to El.
  "Pleased to make your acquaintance," Chase said.  "We should hurry.  They'll lock me out as soon as they notice what I've done.  I haven't had time to cover my tracks as effectively as I'd prefer.  I would recommend that we reach the exit before that happens."
  "What about Raziel?"
  "He wasn't in the prison registry.  Either he's already dead, in another facility, or he got away somehow."
  "El, do you know the way out?" James asked.
  Wordlessly, El turned and continued marching.  James and Chase struggled to keep up with his increased pace.
  El led them through the facility in a circuitous route.  James wondered why, until he realized that El could probably sense the guards, and was now charting a course to avoid their rounds.  It took some finesse and careful timing, but they encountered no more resistance, although they could hear heavy footsteps echoing all around them.
  The prison block was segregated from the rest of the facility by a broad door, watched vigilantly by a pair of guards.  Chase focused for a moment, dropped both of them with a thought, and cranked the door open.  A waft of acrid air caught their noses as they dashed through.
  James wasn't sure what he was expecting to find: probably more office fare, to conceal the prison below.  Instead, the door opened to the lower mezzanine of a massive, wide-open room, shaped like half of a hexagon.  The wall behind them was cut into a vertical mountain face of dull red stone.  In front of them, the room was filled with the bustle of people.  Three higher floors ringed the room above, joined together with busy escalators.  The center of the room was clear from the floor to the ceiling high above.  At the room's very center, a raised platform bore a stylized statue of a sphinx, paw lifted in an attack pose.
  The escaping trio ducked behind a stack of carefully marked boxes.  El's eyes darted around the crowd, searching for a route to the exit.
  Chase swore under her breath.  "My access was just cut," she hissed.  "How are we going to get that door open now?"
  Orange flashing lights sprang into being throughout the room.  A calm, automated voice began announcing, Prison Break, Prison Break.
  James' glance rested on a box cutter sitting on the crate next to him.  He closed his fingers around it, thumbed its power on, and tested it against the glass beside him.  It took an uncomfortable moment, but its laser edge sliced unevenly through the thick glass.  He set to work cutting a square shape large enough to squeeze through, while Chase and El watched a number of guards mustle their way through the crowd, a full head taller than the people they shoved aside.  Miraculously, nobody seemed to have noticed them yet, as terribly conspicuous as they felt.  The guards had split into a search pattern, stationing a pair of heavily armed members by the main exit while the rest swept a loose grid through the room's floor.
  Once the panel of glass was cut fully free, James carefully pressed it out from the rest of the wall and lowered it to the sandy ground outside.  He tugged on Chase's sleeve and made an urgent hand gesture.  He ducked through the opening at a crouch.

  The terrain outside was an endless plain of gritty, red sand, punctuated by rocks and boulders.  The mountain behind the Sphinx facility was part of a long range.  Jagged grey and red peaks lifted to the sky, ringing the horizon to the north and west.  The acrid wind was stronger outside, blowing in uneven gusts.  Dust stung their nostrils as El led them up a steep path hidden on the mountainside.  Below them, the polygonal glass facility they'd just escaped glittered with orange warning lights.  As they gained altitude, giant floodlights switched on and began to sweep across the desert plain far below.
  The sky above was filled with vaporous clouds of rust.  To James and Chase's surprise, a dim crimson sun shone high in the sky.  The meager light had led them to expect that it was late evening, but by the position of the sun it was closer to noon.  The star's meager light, even diffused through the dusty air, was barely enough to mask the stars beyond; a million points of distant light showed clearly through the atmosphere's gossamer viel.
  Suddenly, El collapsed, his breath expelled from his chest as he sat down forcibly on a rock.  Chase barely managed to catch him in time to break his heavy fall and lower him gently to the rock's surface.  El blinked and shook his head when James asked if he was alright.  "I just need a moment," he spoke, massaging his nose.  James saw a spot of blood below his nostrils.  "Maintaining a shield for that long always takes its toll.  Especially against that many minds."
  "Thank you for setting me free," he said sincerely to Chase, once he had regained his breath.
  "I have to ask-- where are we?" asked James.
  "Mintaka IV," answered El matter-of-factly.  James looked at him blankly.  "I understand that it's part of a cluster of stars found in your constellation Orion."
  "What?" asked Chase, incredulously.
  "We are currently about nine hundred thirty six lightyears from your homeworld."  El paused.  "And about fourteen thousand lightyears from mine."
  "Um.  How did we get here?"
  "Your race has known instellar spaceflight for centuries.  You were unaware?"
  "You could say that."
  James and Chase exchanged a look.  "It's going to be a long walk home," James said, glancing at the sky and shivering.
  "The organization of your race known as Pegasus conquered my nation centuries ago," El said.  "It was a close contest, but my race was understandably unacquainted with the concept of treachery.  Pegasus appears to have developed a technology that can selectively shield consciousness from us.  We were otherwise on roughly equal footing technologically, in terms of weaponry and so forth.  Needless to say, between that and our lesser physical stature, they were able to best us, and have used us as an unwilling labor force ever since."
  "You talk about Pegasus, but this is a Sphinx building, and we were caught by Intech?" James mentioned questioningly.
  "A loose alliance exists among certain entities within your corporate world," El explained.  "Intech specializes in the acquisition of knowledge assets, assassinations, and other such wetworks.  Sphinx provides security and muscle.  Pegasus are explorers and conquerors.  Lion finances research and development.  And so on.  Each possesses an individual agenda, but often they form contracts and pursue joint goals."
  "Pandora," Chase said.  El nodded.
  "That is one such project," the child confirmed.  "As of the time of my incarceration, we had yet to discover its ultimate purpose.  The microchip you acquired may be an important source of information."
  "How long were you in prison?" James asked.
  "One hundred forty seven years, five months, and seventeen days, as you count time."  El stirred to a standing position.  "We should make haste.  I can guide you to a safe house of my movement that has yet to be compromised.  We are very difficult to withhold information from," he added with a touch of smugness.
  The path they followed was not so much a steady trail as a sequence of landings and gaps in the jagged rocks that it wasn't outright impossible to traverse.  El led them unerringly farther and farther into the mountains, guiding them through a low pass as the peaks towered overhead.  The sun couldn't be seen in the narrow band of visible sky.  Tiny pinpricks of distant stars cast a pale light that was just adequate for the trio to spot safe footholds.
  Hours later, kilometers of an inpenetrable rock labyrinth were between them and the Sphinx prison complex.  El stopped them and suggested that they make camp for the night on a broad shelf.  Without many more words, the child sat cross-legged against one wall, his eyelids drooping.
  James and Chase huddled close on the hard, dusty stone floor, despite the warmth of the air.  Slowly, the warm rock and the falling levels of adrenaline soothed them into a restless sleep.

  Neither slept well that night.  The morning found them cramped and uncomfortable, but marginally more rested than they had been the night before.  El blinked as they stirred.
  "Today is dangerous," El spoke without preamble.  "We must cross an open dust plain to reach the shelter I'm guiding us toward.  Risk of detection from overhead drones is high, but no other route is as passable as this one.  Are you well enough to continue?"
  Chase asked for a moment, to James' gratitude.  James spent a few minutes doing stretches, trying to work out deep-seated muscle cramps that had never fully gone away since his stay in the prison cell.  Chase did some quick checking on her HUD.
  "Will your shelter have a power supply that's compatible with our standards?" she asked.  "Our supplies hold a little more charge than the standard augmentations, but another day would be pushing it close."
  "Yes, if the base remains in good repair," said El.  "You will not be our first human guests.  We have periodically been fortunate enough to acquire sympathizers from your race."
  "James, put your system in subsistence mode.  We should conserve charge," she advised.  James concurred and adjusted his settings accordingly.  They would need to make their way today without HUD assistance.
  The terrain they covered that morning was, if possible, less forgiving than their journey the previous night.  Walkways were narrower, angles were sharper, and sudden chasms crossed their paths with uncomfortable regularity.  The dim morning sun cast dark shadows across their path.  Once, they skirted the a narrow lip around a deep crater that fell sharply away to their right, forming a massive bowl with an unnaturally smooth slope.  El identified it as a weapon strike from orbital bombardment.  "Radiation levels will not be dangerous to either of our species at this distance," El mentioned, helpfully.
  Throughout the morning, their steady uphill progress was reversed, and they found themselves losing altitude and light.  Soon, they rounded a dusty protrusion and the mountains dropped away.  Far below, a perfectly flat plain stretched before them.  A kilometer or so across it, they could see the red rock rising once again.  On the plain, currents and eddies flowed through the dust, like a silent reddish-grey sea.  The warm breeze, stronger here where it was unimpeded, rustled James and Chase's hair as they stood at the precipice.
  "It's beautiful," Chase remarked.  "Serene."
  "This world has its appeal," El replied.  James, who was beginning to be able to read their companion's understated emotions, detected a note of wistfulness.  "Enslavement aside.  It also has strategic value as a source of silicon and certain heavier metals.  Our people settled it some years before the human invasion.  I have heard humans refer to it as Zen.  A philosophy characterized by minimalism, yes?"
  The path they followed twisted its way down the sheer cliff face below them, hatching back into the mountains briefly only to reemerge lower and lower in the wall.  When they gained the valley floor, El made a pleased noise.  From a concealed cavity beneath a boulder at the plain's edge, El produced a set of thick grey blankets.  "Low-technology concealment from watchers above," he explained.  "This is a good sign.  My movement has been active in my absence."
  Following El's lead, they held the blankets over head and started to make their way across the dusty plain.  The ceaseless wind erased any tracks they left behind as they walked.
  El's fears about drones were not unfounded.  Midway across the plain, he stopped them and pointed out a bright star moving across the sky overheard.  As far as they could tell, though, they remained undetected.
  At the plain's far end, an irregular stone arch greeted them, and for the first time they saw a clearly crafted path through the dust.  El directed them to leave their blankets under a matching boulder at this end, and guided them more confidently up a twisting trail.  Soon, they arrived at a dark hole, concealed under a sharp overhang in the mountainside.  El held up his hand to stop them.  His eyes lidded and he sat motionless.
  Just as James was becoming impatient, El's eyes reopened.  "The watchers now know that we approach, and that you are not enemies," he explained.  Together, they entered the cave.

  Raziel regained control of his body, sat up, and looked around himself.  The monorail track stretched a razor-straight line north to south across the sky overhead, the train long gone.  He sat on a sandy hillside and cursed his inadequacy.
  The assassin had employed a strengthened version of the optical virus that had been used at Alice's abduction, which presumably none of their security subsystems could track.  James and Chase had vanished from the visible spectrum without warning as they rode back along the moutain range.  Raziel had wasted not a moment in tearing through the train car, stealth and subtlety abandoned in an instant of furious activity.  He'd flipped his optics through IR and UV, seeing nothing, until he thought to set off a smoke charge: the assassin's outline was clearly delineated in the particles' interrupted flow.  He had pursued without hesitation, trading blows in an attempt to stun his opponent before he could draw a weapon, but the assassin had secured his bounties with a hand-tractor and leapt from the train before the Angel could land a definitive strike.  Raziel dove after him, rolling into the impact as he struck the ground just behind his prey.  Then, the assassin must have hit him with something else, in the split second it took to recover from the fall; all at once, he had lost control of his limbs and slumped over, his body unresponsive and useless.  The dust had settled, and now he had to assume that the assassin was long gone, with both of his charges in tow.
  It had taken hours for his digital immune system to take action, learn the shape of the invading code, and counteract it.
  He now had one option.  His professional pride left him no choice but to give chase.
  Nigel, not being an amateur himself, had taken precautions to conceal his trail.  His GPS transmission was disabled, his ident had been scrambled, he'd covered all of the usual give-aways.  Glancing around, however, Raziel saw the one thing he hadn't had time to cover: his footprints.
  Raziel enabled an optical enhancement, and Nigel's footsteps were highlighted with a brilliant orange overlay.  A broad, flat swatch of flattened ground marked the path that his unconscious prizes had swept, as the tractor attached to Nigel's belt had dragged them over the rough ground.  The sandy soil held the marks of their passage in high relief.  Raziel's highlighting extended about twenty paces ahead of him, and a few more paces ahead of that were apparent as hazy blobs of color, but they quickly faded out beyond that; angles and distance interfered with the software's efficacy.
  Raziel tracked his prey through low, mountainous terrain to the edge of the desert below.  At the desert's edge, a wide patch of disturbed sand made it evident even to his unaided glance that a hovertruck had arrived to pick them up, and taken them deeper into the desert.  Raziel ran along the path at an easy pace.
  An hour's exertion brought him to an ancient asphalt road that ran ramrod-straight north and south from one flat horizon to the other.  The truck's trail crossed the road, dust strewn along its perpendicular trajectory.  A half kilometer to the south of the crossing point, a long-abandoned structure advertised gasoline for sale and engine service with a faded billboard over its roof.  Raziel paused his run at the road and caught his breath, hands on his knees, and considered the scene.  On a hunch, he walked the short distance to the gas station and started to poke around.
  Dust and wind had long ago claimed the store.  The glass doorway was smashed into shards across the floor and irregular punctures in the roof and walls emitted beams of evening sun.  Surprisingly, the store seemed to be largely un-looted.  An array of petrified candy bars sat undisturbed in the front counter.
  Curious, he wandered behind the counter and into the mechanic's shop.  Pairs of pneumatic pillars stood forlornly among the rusted shop equipment.  Discarded tools cluttered a rotted workbench along the wall.  Idly, Raziel thought that James would probably find this showcase of historic engineering highly distracting.  What caught his eye, though, was a low tarp laying against the far wall.  He shook off an inch-thick layer of dust and pulled the cover away.
  Underneath the tarp, he found someone's long-lost love.  A high-end motorcycle, gas-powered, leaned against the wall, sealed in a wrapping of airtight plastic.  Its chassis still gleamed with a dull shine.  Raziel unfastened the covering and gave the mechanism a quick look.  The gas tank was empty, but miraculously, nothing looked overly worse for the years upon years of wear.
  He wheeled the cycle out to the front and attempted to persuade the gas dispensers to discharge any remaining fuel they concealed.  Three of the four displays showed a dismal red EMPTY, but the forth obligingly discharged a few gallons of gas with a noisy gurgle.  He flipped the ignition.  The engine sputtered into life on the third attempt, a noxious cloud rising from the exhaust.  Raziel listened to its hum, a smile at his good fortune touching his stoic lips.
  Raziel roared back to the hovertruck's path, turning off the highway in a broad arc to follow the disturbed sand, and sped away from the setting sun.  The speedometer needle touched 120 as he gave the engine another rev.  It was no hoverbike, but it certainly beat running.
  He flicked on night vision as the sun's last rays left the sky, although with the landscape around here, he could probably pilot blind and not miss a thing.  The truck's trail stayed steady and true to the east, highlighted brightly in his vision.  The trail's outline waivered from time to time, as his optics struggled to process input at the speed of his travel.
  Hours into his journey, an column of flame rose directly ahead of him into the distant sky, illuminating the desert night.  A shuttle?
  The crescent moon had nearly reached the zenith before he neared what he assumed was his destination.  A cluster of squat buildings with high arched ceilings sat on the horizon, rich in IR and electromagnetic emissions.
  Listening to the dull roar of his cycle's engine, he reflected that a stealthy approach was already well out of the question.  He lifted his left hand off of the handlebars and unholstered a sidearm, flicking off the safety with his thumb.  Sure enough, the crack of sniper fire started to ricochet off of nearby rocks and sand.  Wasting ammo at this range, Raziel thought, unless they had significantly better combat augs than he had.  He cut the cycle into an uneven serpentine curve as he approached the base.
  Apparently, Raziel's combat augs were in fact several revisions newer than the snipers'.  After his distance guage, busily ticking the meters to the sniper towers, crawled below an acceptable number, he returned fire with the weapon in his left hand.  After the sixth heavy crack, the sniper fire ceased.
  The rocket that followed a few minutes later gave him a little more pause.  Its bright smoke trail vanished behind him, and an explosion shook the ground, uncomfortably close behind him.  He coaxed another few miles per hour from the straining cycle.  By pure luck, he detonated the second rocket en route with his sustained return fire; the third hit the ground in front of him, forcing him into a wide arc and disappointing the idle hope that he'd hit the second right in front of its firer's face.
  By now, he could see a high fence of what he assumed was barbed wire stretched across the desert before him.  With a grimace, he swapped his pistol for one of the grenades at his belt, gauged the trajectory, and tossed it in a lazy arc.  A moment later, he flipped a mental trigger and the fence blew sky-high in a shower of sand and rock.
  The rocket-firer was visible now, standing on a low barrier of sandbags just inside the where the fence used to cross.  Raziel could see the man's bright IR signature lining a final shot, and hesitating as Raziel closed the distance between them.  Mistaking a rocket launcher for a close-range weapon was a slip that you only made once.  Raziel swerved close as he passed the emplacement, reaching out with his right hand.  He successfully caught a handfull of the man's uniform, yanking him bodily from his perch with the motorcycle's force.  The rocket launcher clattered to the sand behind them as Raziel dragged the man through the air.  He let go.  The man soared beside the bike as it skirted next to the first of the buildings, striking its side with a splat.
  A set of small trailers and larger hangers ringed four unevenly sized, elevated pads, rimmed with dashed lines of green light.  Two of the pads were empty, but on the third and fourth sat squat, stub-nosed craft of gleaming ceramic.  Raziel slammed on his motorcycle's breaks and hauled its wheels perpendicular to his direction of travel.  The wheels let out a tortured squeal as the cycle's momentum diminished.  Raziel caught himself with an outstretched leg as the cycle slowed to a stop and started to topple to the ground.  He dismounted fully, unholstered his main weapon, and scanned the structures around him.
  Hazy figures of IR bustled within the trailers, but none matched the signatures he had collected for James or Chase.  He fired a quick shot when he saw a door open.  Okay then.  Time to steal a shuttle.
  Firing a few more shots to discourage pursuit, he retreated under the nearest shuttle's chassis.  He spared a glance upward, getting a snapshot of the tubing revealed on the craft's underside.  He produced a long combat knife from his belt and, with extra care to position himself, cut a long slice in what he guessed was the primary fuel line.  Bluish fluid flooded from the tube, sputtering and gushing into a puddle like a bloodstain.
  Raziel ducked his head out the other side, then pulled it back as a shot hit the shuttle chassis just above him.  A short burst of return fire ended that argument.  He sprinted the short distance to the other landing pad.
  Somehow, they had managed to leave the shuttle door unlocked.  The strongest protection this base seemed to have was that it was in the middle of the desert, kilometers from civilization.  Security through obscurity, eh?  Raziel pulled the entrance ramp down to the pad's surface and dove inside.  He shut the ramp behind him, sending a few parting shots through the closing gap.  Enemy fire harmlessly plinked off the craft's hull, built to withstand re-entry.  He hit a door control to seal the entrance.  As long as no more of those rocket launchers showed up in time, he should be safe here.
  Settling into the cockpit, he cast a glance over the shuttle controls.  Fortunately, this model's dashboard wasn't much more complicated than a standard hovercar.  He eased the throttle forward and pulled back on the control yoke.  A low hum penetrated the cabin as the shuttle lifted gently from the pad on a tongue of irridescent flame.  Bullets tracked his ascent with futile persistence, their impact energy fading as he gained altitude.
  Twenty minutes later, he was in orbit.  The Earth tilted lazily below him.
  He interfaced with the ship's navigation system, flipping through the preconfigured destinations.  A Sphinx logo flashed on his HUD, then a list of colonies: Rigel... Betelgeuse... Mintaka...  Fortunately, he'd had some dealings with Sphinx in the past.  He punched in Mintaka.
  The planet gently tilted away from view as the ship re-oriented itself to its new course.  The interstellar drive kicked in.  The stars shifted red at the craft's nose, then blurred together in a rainbow cocoon.  If the navigation estimate was correct, Raziel had about a day and a half to prepare for his reception on Mintaka.
