Ascension

	The next morning, Toa held a status meeting in one of the Deneb base's main conference halls.  Representatives from each Resistance team crowded in to a massive amphitheater hall, filing in from entrances all along its perimeter.  James and Chase met El in the lobby above, and found a set of seats together two-thirds of the way up.
	As they found their seats, James hurriedly related the events of the previous night to El, speaking under his breath.  El's eyes widened somewhat.
	"Count me in," he said, simply.
	A tactical map was projected in low holographic relief on the amphitheater's concrete wall.  A jumble of buildings, streets, and canals panned slowly across the view, draped by broad swaths of red and green.
	Toa began his address as soon as the commotion of arriving aliens had subsided.  His voice was unnaturally loud, projected wirelessly to clusters of speakers that lined the room's ceiling.
	"The assault on Hydra has cost us dearly.  But with hundreds of mechs hacked or disabled, we have succeeded in driving the Hydra forces from nearly seventy percent of their base's territory."  He paused as the assembled aliens gave an incomprehensible cheer.  "What's more, thanks to some quick thinking by our human allies, we have regained the freedom of nearly eighty percent of our enslaved brethren."  Human-style applause filled the room.  James grinned.  "Of those, about half of them have made it back safely to Resistance-held ground.  We've had troops deployed all night to meet them and guide them back.  The new arrivals are in temporary housing now.  Vak, we'll need your team to provide them with more comfortable quarters as soon as we can arrange it."
	From his seat in the front row, Vak acknowledged the task with a wave.
	"Unfortunately, I have bad news, as well.  Last night at 1800 hours Hydra managed to successfully send a distress call to X-1, the nearest Sphynx base.  I understand that we have another two days before Sphynx reinforcements arrive.
	"Our goal should be to cripple Hydra operations to the best of our ability using the time that we have remaining, and then shore up our defenses to prepare for the inevitable counterattack.  Let's make it worth every Resistance life we've lost.
	"Lo, Mak, assemble in Command after we finish here, and we'll establish strategic priorities for the time we have before the withdrawal.
	"The rest of you: fine work so far.  One day, I promise you, we will see a free Deneb."  The hall filled with an alien roar.
	The assembled Resistance members began to disperse.  James caught Vak's eye as they were leaving; the trio caught up with him in the lobby outside and stood to the side, out of the way.
	"Vak, if you have time, we have another coordinate set we need a route to," James explained.
	"Sure, we could arrange that.  Follow me back to my office."
	Vak led them through the labyrinthine hive of corridors and up the elevator to the Facilities spaces.  He exchanged rapid-fire bursts of alien chatter with a handful of assistants as they passed, presumably setting in motion the task that Toa had given him.  Then, they arrived in the map room.
	"Alright.  What's your destination?"
	Chase relayed the numbers.  The map panned into Hydra space, its crosshairs settling within a hexagonal building surrounded by a park.
	Vak pondered for a moment.
	"I understand that we're sending a convoy of troops up 87th to hit an electrical plant," he said after some consideration, tapping a nearby sector of the display.  "You could always hitch a ride with them to this intersection," he slid his finger to point, "and walk the rest of the way in."
	A few more rapid keystrokes overlayed a sequence of red symbols over the park.  "This park is usually patrolled by a complement of mechs.  It looks like all four of them were compromised during yesterday's strike, so unless they've called for reinforcements, you should be able to walk right in."
	James and Chase thanked him.  "Do you happen to know what the building is?" Chase asked.
	Vak checked the readout, then shook his head.  "We don't have any clarification on that in our mapping data.  Sorry."
	He bid them good luck, and the trio showed themselves down the elevator.

	They caught the short-range troop shuttle at the landing pad just as the convoy was departing.  The shuttle was a hovertruck with open sides; two rows of alien soldiers held a rail that was mounted through its center, weapons drawn in their free hands.  Apparently, they were expecting trouble.
	James, Chase, and El found an empty spot on the rail and found a sturdy grip.  The craft lifted from the ground with a light hum and started its journey north, through the cracked and ruined streets.  A small phalanx of other crafts lifted behind them, following in an inverted-V formation.	
	The wastelands were quiet this morning, at least this far from Hydra territory.  Abandoned buildings and empty lots passed in a blur of twisted metal.
	An uneventful hour of travel passed before the formation began to slow.  A barricade crossed the street ahead, and as they approached, Chase's enhanced vision could make out dark figures scurrying along its ramparts.  Hydra forces.
	Their craft opened fire first.  A ball of fire was lobbed in a lazy arc from the hovertruck's underside.  A brilliant fireball blossomed on the barrier's top.  Machine gun fire started to pierce the air around them, striking the craft's front, leaving dents in its chassis.  Bullets didn't trouble the driver, but the missile that followed made the driver swerve and the phalanx scatter.  It exploded harmlessly behind them, leaving a smoking crater in a building they'd passed.
	The hovertrucks answered with a coordinated salvo of heavy artillery.  The ground shook with repeated impacts and the Hydra barricade fell into pieces, soldiers scattering.  The trucks gunned their ignitions and forced their way through.  Alien soldiers opened fire as they passed, trading ineffectual shots with the Hydra forces.  Then, as quickly as they'd approached, they were through.
	The soldiers stayed vigilant as the trucks hovered on.  Small Hydra strike forces traded shots with them, from the tops of overpasses and footbridges, or from the cover of wrecked buildings.  The trucks maintained a velocity that made combat difficult for both sides.
	Abruptly, the truck that bore James, Chase, and El slowed to a more comfortable pace, as the others blew by.  They leapt the meter-high drop to the pavement below.  The truck's drive kicked back on, and then it was gone.

	The street was eerily quiet after the truck's constant hum and the frequent spats of gunfire that had followed them here.  Chase found their bearings and shared their plotted route with the others.
	[This way,] she said, indicating the illuminated path.  [It looks like Vak is taking us through a lot of alleys to avoid exposure.]
	[Stay sharp,] El cautioned.  [This is contested territory, remember.  And you've seen how often my scanning is useless,] he added.
	They chose their footsteps carefully as they left the street for the comforting confines of the alley Chase's data pointed them toward.  It was strewn with rubble and marked with faded runes of ancient alien graffiti.  El snorted at some of them, but neglected to share their translations.  [Humor doesn't translate well,] he said.  [Also, it's more than a little offensive.]
	Despite El's warnings, they encountered no resistance.  In several places along the path, breaks between buildings or sections of chain-link fence granted them views into broader sections of the city, but not once did they see another creature stir, friendly or enemy.  A cold wind blew through the city, whipping up a dirty spray of ash and dust.
	[Where is she taking us,] Chase asked.  Neither James nor El had an answer.
	As the morning progressed, they once again heard the sounds of distant combat, as their allies pressed their advantage.

	After what seemed like kilometers of cramped alleyways, the trio emerged at the edge of a broad park.  It was the first piece of unspoiled landscape that James or Chase had seen on Deneb.  A well-kept grassy expanse blanketed the earth, unnaturally even, interrupted only by sporadic arrangements of colorful flowers.  The building they sought was visible in the distance.
	[Bizarre,] James commented.
	Chase was the first to spot a mech.  A hulking pile of metal rested under a decorative cherry tree, inert.  She ran a tentative scan, but found no evidence of activity.  As Vak had promised, it seems like the machine had been compromised and was now completely docile.
	[That's still unnerving as hell,] she said.  El shrugged.
	From their vantage point at the park's edge, none of their scans detected any other, more unexpected security measures to circumvent.
	[I suppose it's now or never,] James told the others.  He started to step out from the alley's confines.
	Just as he was setting foot on the lawn, an unexpected motion from the corner of his eye made him jump in fright.  To his astonishment, a tiny, familiar-looking cat with dark markings approached him fearlessly from its makeshift shelter.
	[That couldn't be-] Chase began.  The cat rubbed affectionately against James' leg, purring energetically. 
	He bent down to pet it.  The instant he did so, a noise made him glance up.  A dart was lodged in the wall directly behind where his head had been.
	As one, James, Chase, and El dove for the ground in different directions.  Nigel stood on the lawn, looking irritated.  The cat scurried away to hide.
	"Bad news, Hawk," he said, reloading his wrist.  "The contract on your head was reinstated.  Actually, the contracts for all of you."
	James pulled the pistol from his belt and fired a shot.  The bullet lodged in Nigel's shoulder.  He didn't even flinch.
	"Nice aim," he said, flippantly.
	El fired a heavy slug from his railgun, but as El had suspected, Nigel's reflexes were highly enhanced.  Nigel danced to the side, and El's shot blew a wide, smoking crater in the lawn behind him.
	[Wait a moment,] Chase sent, slowly.  [He had his chip installed before we raided the Codex.]
	[So?] replied James, dodging another dart.
	[So, he also hasn't changed his key,] she explained, smugly.  The darts stopped, and James peered over the block of concrete he was hiding behind.  Nigel had found that his muscles were no longer listening to his brain.  His body clentched stiffly, and his jaws clamped shut.  For the first time in years, panic rose in Nigel's eyes.
	[The control sequence is too unfamiliar.  I can't stop his heart,] Chase said urgently.  [James, finish him off!]
	El and James exchanged a glance.  After a moment, El handed him the railgun.  James took the heavier gun, surprised by its heft, and carefully aimed it at the assassin.He pulled the trigger.
	Nigel's top half disintegrated under the force of the blow.  The second shot blew his still-standing legs into a shower of unrecognizable bits.  The third shot didn't hit anything but lawn, but it made James feel better.
	After he was satisfied that Nigel wasn't reassembling before his eyes, he handed the weapon back to El, hyperventilating.
	[Feeling better?] El asked, bemused.
	Now that the threat had been eliminated, the cat reemerged from its hiding place with a happy "merp."  As they watched, it sauntered onto the lawn in front of them, sat down, at looked at them impatiently.
	[I guess we're supposed to follow,] Chase said.  [Well, it led us right the last time.]
	The three companions followed their feline guide across the now slightly less well-kept expanse of grass, approaching the building at its center.

	[That guard post is manned,] El warned as they stepped closer to the hexagonal building's entrance.  A glass window was inset beside the closed door, and now the humans could see a shadow against the glass' surface.
	Chase motioned for them to approach along the building's exterior wall.  She knelt next to the building's edge and began to crawl her way underneath the window's view.  James and El followed in kind.
	The cat, however, sauntered casually to the door.  To Chase's astonishment, the door slid open at its approach.  She heard a murmur of protest from the guard shack.  There was a sound like tearing paper, a wet thud, and no more sounds from the guart.  The cat came back out of the doorway, sat at its base, and started to lick itself.
	Rounding the corner, they saw the guard's body resting in the hallway, ruining the carpeting with an expanding bloodstain.  His throat had been neatly sliced open.
	[I don't even want to know,] James commented.  Chase caught a glimpse of the cat's claws as it fastidiously cleaned them.  Razor-blade edges caught the sunlight.
	[Why would you even do that?] she asked.
	[This cat might have been a prototype host for the Pandora chip,] El speculated.  [Hydra often experiments on animals before attempting to put implants in a human body.  Usually they use monkeys or rats, because of the similarities in phsiology.  But these days, as much of your body is metal and silicon, it matters less what species you use and more what version of operating system they're running.]
	[Let's not get on this one's bad side,] James said warily.
	[It seems to like you well enough,] El pointed out.  [Did you feed it?]
	[Well... yes, if it's the same cat we found at Rainier...]
	[There you go, then.  Underneath all of the chrome, it's still just a cat, after all.]
	[It couldn't get itself into a can of tuna then, though.  I'd think that razor-blade claws would work well for that.]
	[Maybe they're a new enhancement.  A cat that can open its own cans of tuna, hey.  I've known scientists who have built far crazier things, after all.]

	The cat led them through a series of featureless corridors.  As they passed a series of doors with windows, Chase glanced inside to see bank after bank of hardware, humming softly to itself.  Preoccupied scientists in stark white labcoats wandered among the computers, taking readouts and entering configurations.  None of them were at all concerned with the intruders wandering the halls.
	[Some kind of lab?] James asked.  [What are they researching?  Is this another Pandora center, like Intech's back on Earth?]
	[I doubt it,] El said as they walked.  [The fabrication plant was on Earth because Deneb is more heavily contested ground.  There's less chance of the finished product being compromised there and ending up in enemy hands.  Although, as you showed them, not a negligible chance.  I suppose they might prototype subsystems here, or maybe the implantation process.  That would explain Nigel and the cat.]
	[Alice's coordinates are right ahead,] Chase said, curiosity mounting.
	The cat rounded a final corner.  They followed, to see a sturdy door emblazoned with stern red and yellow warnings emblazoned in three languages sitting squarely in their path.  Once again, at the cat's approach, the heavy door shifted open without complaint, emitting chords of pneumatic distress.
	Within was an empty room, ten meters square, lit overbright by fluorescent lights.  A pair of thick cables, one red and one blue, ran from a recess in the ceiling down the wall, over the floor, and up a waist-high marble pedestal that sat in the room's center.  On the pillar's top sat a switch with a rubber handle.
	[Wait,] said Chase.  [These are network cables.]  She knelt and lifted them from the floor, reading glyphs that repeated along their lengths.  [Blue is the internal network.  Red is the external.  This switch connects Hydra's lab intranet to the global-- I mean interstellar Network.]
	[So Alice needs us to open their network?] James asked, peering at the switch.
	[It seems that way,] El said.
	The cat, bored, wandered out of the room again.  The door slid shut behind it.
	"Well, I guess we don't have much choice now," James said.  He flipped the switch.

	If James had been expecting a shower of sparks or the ringing of alarm klaxons, he would have been disappointed.  For a moment, nothing happened.  He peered closer at the switch, making sure that he's made contact properly.
	Alice appeared behind him with a click.  He spun around at the sound.  She looked just as he remembered her from the monorail station; maybe a few years younger.
	Her figure flickered in the light.  Figure and form of the door behind her showed through her image.  James realized that he was looking at a holographic projection.
	"Hello, James," she spoke.  Her voice had a tinned quality, as though it were playing from a recording, but her virtual eyes met James'.  "Thank you for all that you've done.  You've been a tremendous help, and nobody ever asked you to do all of this."
	"What have I done, exactly?" he asked.
	"They kidnapped me from that monorail station because of my research," she began.  "Intech is reponsible for the acquisition of new 'knowledge resources.'  When they see you publish something in an area that could further Pandora, they subcontract an assassin or a thug to bring you in.  Then, they use those tamed aliens of theirs to rape your mind of every last piece of work you've done, every last thought you've had that they think they can use."  Bitterness entered her voice.  "I understand you've set their captives free, too.  You've done the known galaxy, and your species, a great service."
	She said 'your' species, Chase noticed.
	"You know by now what the Pandora project's objective is, correct?"
	"Immortality," Chase said.
	Alice's image nodded.  "Human immortality, immortality for those who can afford it.  An unstoppable army of enhanced soldiers.  A power no civilization in the universe, known or unknown, could conquer or subdue.
	"My work was in the use of nanotech to enhance or replace the human brain.  The brain has unimaginable complexity, you know.  And when I saw 'unimaginable,' I mean that you might literally be unable to imagine it.  It's like the only perfect map being the real thing, right?  But with nanotech, you can subdivide the complexity as much as you need to, to be able to model it with enough resolution.  You can combat fractal complexity with a fractal device... but now I'm just rambling about my own research."  She laughed.
	"So they killed you, after they pulled the knowledge they wanted," James prompted.
	"That's right.  Or they tried to, anyway.  You see, I've done a lot of work about the nature of consciousness, and its transference from one physical realm to another.  I... I'm still not sure how I managed to pull it off.  But I projected myself through the alien's connection... and into the network.  I watched them snap my neck and dump me outside.  Unnerving as hell, by the way.
	"But then I was stuck.  The lab intranet here on Deneb only connects to the outside network at tightly controlled points, firewalled like you wouldn't believe.  You probably could have cracked your way out, Chase, but I certainly couldn't.  All that I could do was watch internal reports and piggyback subroutines on legitimate traffic whenever the opportunities arose.
	"I saw the alert that was sent around when your queries tipped off the alliance that you were looking for me... much to my surprise.  I'd basically given myself up as lost, you see.  They are also very thorough about covering their tracks.
	"But once I knew that you were looking for me, I tried to help whenever I could.  I planted a compulsion to get one of your customers to give you those coordinates, James, but I couldn't disarm the security alerts at the facility.  Chase, I gave you that root login: much easier to find when you live in the network and watch people type all day, by the way.  I hired Raziel for you once I found access to Sphynx's financial systems... I was getting a little better hang of things by the time you were raiding the Codex.  I managed to subvert their security systems for the entire route to the codex itself.  Sorry I couldn't find you a better way out, though."
	Chase's eyes lit up.  "This is incredible," she said.	 "You live the hacker's dream now, you know."
	"Living on a network?  Yeah, I could see that," Alice replied with a laugh.  "It was more of an invention of necessity for me, you understand."
	"So," El said, "when James flipped that switch, we gave you access to the full network, right?"
	Alice nodded.  "I've replicated myself across the galaxy, now," she said.  "Now I'm finally free, thanks to all of your work and your sacrifice.  I can offload processing onto whatever idle systems I can find, and I don't have to worry about some net security admin finding me and turning me off.  It's how I can finally afford to render myself like this, you know."
	"Basically," said James with a smile, "we just flipped the switch and you ascended to godhood, didn't you?"
	She laughed again.  "I suppose you could say that," she replied.  "But at the moment, I'm just happy to be alive.  Well then, my first godly acts will be to free Deneb, and to take you two home."

	On the way out of the laboratory, no doors were locked at their approach, no guards challenged their progress, and no obstacle hindered their progress.  The cat was nowhere to be seen.  Through the doors, the scientists continued their work, oblivious to the events that had transpired within their building's control room.
	The trio emerged back out to the park grounds, blinking in the late morning sunlight.  The mechs were still inert piles of metal, sleeping giants on the close-mowed grass.  No sooner did they start to cross the lawn to retrace their steps than an unmanned hovercart rumbled up to them, stopping patiently before them.  They boarded, and the craft hummed off to the south of its own accord at a leisurely pace.
	They left the park and descended into a low southbound canal, presumably for better cover.  As they travelled, the cacophony of combat began to rumble around them.  The ground shuddered below them, stirring the canal's murky waters.  Once, Chase spotted a squad of soldiers crossing a makeshift bridge overhead at a quick sprint.  She debated opening fire, but held back.  Whomever or whatever was piloting it, the craft they rode had very little power and provided not much protection, and the risk of return fire was too great.
	"I suppose that I managed to not mess anything up that badly today," Chase commented, once they were past.
	"Nope.  As a matter of fact, you saved all of our lives.  Again."
	"Well.  If you don't tell anyone about my slip yesterday.  I'll try to put it behind me."
	"I think that we might be able to manage that," James promised.  "El?"
	"It has already been forgotten," the alien said.
	The canal walls sped past, dirty and broken concrete walls drifting past as they left the battleground behind them.

	At the canal's end was a sprawling lake.  The surface of the water glittered in the sun as they passed, the hovercart's lift churning its still surface into a tumult of white foam behind them.
	El looked back over his shoulder to look at the cityscape.  Lights flashed on the horizon as the fighting raged on.
	The cart swung its trajectory east in a wide arc.  Resistance-held territory was just beyond the lake's far shore.  They reached the lake's edge in another few minutes; an abandoned boathouse kept watch over a handful of rotting wooden piers.  A concrete landing dipped to the lake's surface below, allowing visitors to lower boats to the water.  The hovercart sped smoothly up its slope, busting through the ancient gate at its end.
	Another few blocks passed.  They started to pass clusters of alien border guards.  El exchanged complicated hand signals, and the aliens amiably waved them through.
	The craft rounded a final corner and they found themselves at the landing pad.  The guns were readied, each manned by a crew of operators, pointed skyward.  The hovercart touched down gracefully at an unoccupied corner pad.
	As they disembarked, they received a message from Toa, summoning them to meet in his office.
	When they arrived to the underground command bunker, Toa was already in council with another projection of Alice.
	"I've sent the right callsigns to the vessels approaching from X-1," she was saying.  "They've reversed trajectory and are already returning to their ports of origin.  I'm also blocking all outgoing non-Resistance traffic."
	"That buys us a few days, at least, before the lack of communications makes them suspicious.  In the mean time, they'll most likely assume that we hit the transmission dish."  Toa turned to his tactical map.  "We'll need to take possession of their planetary defense facilities as soon as possible."
	He turned again to face the newcomers.
	"I understand that we owe you thanks once again," he said.
	"We just followed directions," James protested modestly.
	Toa approached and gave James and Chase firm, human handshakes.
	"Our strategists are in agreement: within days, we should finally hold Deneb.  For the first time in centuries, our people will have a planet to call our own... and from here, we can fight for the freedom of the rest."  He stopped, shaking his head.  "With Alice's help, we have hope."
	"El," Toa continued, "I expect that your companions will be returning home soon.  Would you join our efforts?"
	"Gladly," the alien accepted.  El bowed deeply to James and Chase.  "It's been a pleasure," he said formally.  "May we meet again, and next time, not in a prison cell."

	They walked to Gregory's shuttle.  "I suppose that we'll be going home in style," James said appreciatively.  He and Chase embarked up the ramp together.  Chase took the pilot's seat, gesturing James to the co-pilot's.
	"Thanks for driving," he said, eyeing the control panel.  "I'm not sure that I could fly this thing."
	"I watched Raziel fly it here," she explained.  "It's not much more complicated than a hovertruck, really."  She jacked in to the control panel.  The ramp lifted softly into the craft's side, forming an airtight seal with a hiss.  She eased on the throttle, lifting the shuttle tentatively off of its pad.  Aliens bustled busily below them as the craft drifted above the level of the nearby building tops.
	The atmosphere thinned as they rose, the faint glimmer of stars poking through the lessened curtain of diffused sunlight.  Soon, Deneb was an oblate sphere of blue and grey, receding below them.  Chase reoriented the craft.  The stars faded into liquid rainbows as they accelerated to interstellar speeds.

	It was nearly a five-day journey back to Earth.  Network connectivity wasn't possible in flight, so Alice wasn't available for conversation.  James and Chase spent an inordinate amount of time relaxing in the shuttle's lounge.  Chase discovered that the shuttle's minibar was stocked.
	"To our benefactress," James proposed a toast.  "May she rule the network benevolently, and not go crazy with power too quickly."
	Chase giggled.  "If she's smart, she'll keep a low profile," she said.  "There's still a chance that a sufficiently large effort by us mere mortals could pull the plug on her.  Although that'll be more difficult if she learns how to hack memories.  You're probably fortunate that it's her in there and not me."
	"Oh, I know," James said teasingly.  "You've always been the dangerous one."

	Chase dropped the craft smoothly back to cruising speed a comfortable distance from Earth, so they could plan their approach.
	"Hello again," greeted Alice's image on their communications board.  "You'll be pleased to hear that Deneb is once again in alien hands.  There are a few pockets of Hydra resistance left, but Toa holds the keys to the planetary defense system, so there's little chance of reinforcements arriving from anywhere else."  She waited as James and Chase gave a cheer.
	"Now there's the question of what to do with you two," she continued.  "I've taken the liberty of wiping your records from the Siren data banks, so you shouldn't be harassed by any more assassins."
	"Where should we land the ship?" asked Chase, ever pragmatic.
	There was a brief pause.  "There's a clearing by Rainier that's suitably out of the way.  You should be able to take the monorail home from there easily enough."
	Chase acknowledged, and guided the shuttle gracefully onto the specified course.
	"I'll be in touch, if you need me."  Alice's image disappeared from the screen.
	The shuttle touched the outermost atmosphere.  James watched as the continent below shrank to a mass of city lights, then to individual streets and buildings in miniature, then the great dark region around the mountain rising up to meet them.  Chase touched down in a grassy meadow, still covered with winter frost.

	The few hours on the monorail that it took them to return home seemed much shorter to them, now.  They also felt strange being in the company of so many humans.  James expected that children would look odd to him for a long time, even if he never returned to visit their newfound allies.
	He idly watched the faces of the late-night commuters that shared the car with them, and wondered how many others had vanished as he passed, unnoticed and unhelped.
	James and Chase disembarked at their well-known station and walked a few short, snow-covered blocks together in silence, their shared breath visible in the cold January air.  Mounting the steps to their apartment, James flung the door open.
	"Well, we're home again," he said, hugging Chase tight.
