Guardian Angel

  The next day, while James was at work, Chase pulled data from the logs she'd recovered from the Intech files.  Optical video capture was not the ideal method to store large volumes of text.  She spent the morning crafting and debugging a program to automate the extraction of the raw data.  The afternoon was spent running it on her visual storage unit.  Her rushed handiwork was good enough to pull most of the data without intervention, but she had written the software to default to a manual query when its uncertainty passed a certain threshold.  Even the small percentage of particularly noisy frames that required her input occupied several hours.
  By the time James came home somewhat early that afternoon, she had the full log scanned and indexed.  She greeted him with a kiss and shared her view on a projected screen.  James settled beside her on the couch with a snack.  Together, they started to skim their way through the lengthy file, pausing frequently.  It was dense reading, full of ill-defined jargon and raw data.
  Early entries in the log seemed to be predominantly information gathering: coordinates and addresses for Alice's house, workplace, and regular haunts; fragmented transcripts of innocuous calls and messaging sessions; detailed biometric data, occasionally annotated with cryptic side notes.  James felt vaguely voyeuristic reading most of it, even second hand.  Chase showed no such reluctance, but then, this standard fare for her job.  Somebody had gone to tremendous lengths to catalog Alice's life with a frightening amount of detail.
  "Most of what we've seen so far is probably setting up the abduction," James observed.  "Is there anything that gives us a hint about why, or who?"
  "Well, it is just a log," Chase replied.  "I don't think we're likely to find answers to those questions here.  But it might give us a few new questions to ask."  She paged forward idly.  "For example: I see quite a lot of space devoted to her research at Kensington."  She flipped through a few pages of links to publications, brief bios on co-workers over the past few years, and references to surveillance captures at her workplace.  "Do you know what she did, exactly?"
  James thought back.  "I think her specialty was nanotech," he said.  "Medical nanotech.  Replacement hearts and other more complicated organs, things like that."
  Chase followed a few of the research links, more or less at random.  Sure enough, most of them had to do with techniques for growing and adapting organs, including lab studies for the same.  Based on her unscientific survey, it looked like Alice and her teams had met with mixed success.  Nanotech could indeed outperform vat-grown or donated organ transplantation some of the time.  The electronic equivalents had a limited capacity to adapt to the body's expectations and could do a very slightly better job at fooling the host's immune system into accepting it.  However, the more foreign materials and the sheer complexity of the system fought against their success, sometimes quite effectively.
  The next link was quite different.  "I didn't know she studied philosophy, too," James remarked.
  Chase was thoughtful for a moment.  "Would it be possible to build a replacement brain?" Chase asked.
  James shook his head.  "Nope.  Just about everything else, we can augment or replace if you've got the cash, but I've never heard of a brain replacement."
  "If I'm reading this right, that's just what Alice was thinking of doing," Chase observed.
  "Let's go back to the contact information," James suggested.  "Maybe we can find somebody to ask."
  Nodding, Chase flipped the document back to the appropriate bookmark.  Scanning through the text and cross-referencing with the Kensington directory, they were able to identify names of a half-dozen of Alice's peers, both current and former employees.  As Chase produced the names, James correlated them with sets of contact information from the Network directory.
  With the list complete, Chase resumed their skimming from the place they had left off.  "This looks like a record of the abduction itself," Chase said.  Her lips moved wordlessly as she scanned the timestamped records.  She highlighted a line.  "This must be the code for the virus they used to block everyone's optics.  Crafty.  Why would they stage the abduction in a crowded room?"
  James shrugged.  "The bystander effect?"  Chase gave him a questioning look.  "Oh, it's a well-known phenominon from crowd psychology.  If somebody gets robbed or breaks a leg or something in a crowd, people are actually less likely to help than if there are only a handful of people around.  Diffusion of social blame and all of that.  Everyone assumes that somebody else will help, so nobody does.  Maybe they couldn't get to her when she was alone, so they chose the most crowded point to take the most advantage of that, even if anyone happened to defeat the optic block."
  "I guess there weren't counting on you being there," Chase said with a smile.  "Huh," she said.  "There are two runs of the optic block listed here: one for Alice, I guess, and the other for the abductor.  I suppose that one got through Paranoiac somehow."  She gave a sheepish grin.  "Time to retrain the rules, I suppose."
  A few more pages flipped by.  "No name for the abductor," James pointed out.  "Just that NGL.  Looks like an internal designator."
  "Almost at the end of file," Chase announced.  "Hmm.  Nothing much after the abduction.  Just this PROCESSED line again.  That sounds ominous."
  James pulled up a chronometer on his HUD.  "Oh, right," he interjected.  "I promised to meet Spade tonight.  I should leave soon."
  Chase waved.  "Go ahead," she said.  "I think I've stared at this about as much as I can at once, anyway.  I'll secure it and get back to work at that cracking job from yesterday."

  The building that Spade had pointed out to him was an abandoned warehouse in the harbor district.  The harbor was a veritable gold mine for urban exploration.  It was an industrial district, sparsely populated after business hours, and filled with the detritus of a thousand failed manufacturing ventures.  Gaining access to the unclaimed property was often trivial, and determining what the previous owners had been trying to fabricate was a particularly entertaining challenge.
  
  The building that Spade had pointed out to him was an abandoned warehouse in the harbor district.  The harbor was a veritable gold mine for urban exploration.  It was an industrial district, sparsely populated after business hours, and filled with the detritus of a thousand failed manufacturing ventures.  Gaining access to the unclaimed property was often trivial, and determining what the previous owners had been trying to fabricate was a particularly entertaining challenge.
  James leaned against a wall at the side of the street and waiting for his friend, shivering.  Thick clouds transmuted the afternoon sun into a dim grey light.  A few minutes later, tentative flecks of snow began to fall.  You'd think that Spade's shock of green hair would be distinctive enough to stand out in a crowd.
  James' HUD flashed for his attention.  A message from Spade had just arrived.  [Delay on the red line,] it read.  [Go ahead without me, I'll catch up.]
  He complied, anxious to get inside before the wind picked up any more intensity.  Tonight's destination was found along a broad concrete street, wide enough to accomodate forklifts and other loading equipment.  Across the street was a cargo yard filled with a dull rainbow of carefully marked shipping containers.  Bright spotlights and a control tower of darkened steel kept vigilance on their valuable contents.  No such watch was kept on this ramshackle box of iron.  Small windows of darkened glass lined the otherwise featureless exterior walls.  The building's lower half was in relatively good repair, aside from the adornment of the occasional graffiti tag.  Its upper floors, however, were sagging and broken, visibly even from the outside.
  James ducked into an alley beside the building.  Sure enough, a small side door here was secured only by a half-rusted padlock.  A few strikes with a nearby concrete block shattered it with a bright spark.
  The interior of the warehouse was almost entirely occupied by a single room.  Heaps of metallic scraps, once painstakingly organized, were scattered across the cold concrete floor.  James could see the outline of some sort of crane underneath a tarp in the far corner, like a sleeping beast.  A small corner of the roof overhead had entirely collapsed: snow was already beginning to pile up in an irregular triangle against the walls.  Grey clouds overhead were cut by blackened girders.  A catwalk circled the room's perimeter; in the gloom, James could barely see clusters of what must be controls for equipment below.
  If his sense of direction was behaving correctly, the broken ceiling should overlook the Puget Sound and have quite a view.
  A ladder nearby looked to be in good repair.  He climbed it with agility, keeping a good grip on the cold metal.  The catwalk wasn't quite a sturdy as it had seemed from below, but despite the strained sound of protesting metal when he first put his weight on it, it still provided adequate support.  He slowly picked his way around the room's edge.  Once he reached the far corner, a broken support prevented further safe passage, but he found that he could just reach the girder overhead.  Bare light fixtures on chains, mostly empty, swung in unison along the girder's length as he pulled himself over and into a low crawl.  He inched his way along the beam.  The opening was only a few meters further.
  He emerged blinking into the opening under the grey sky and shifted himself into a sitting position around the beam.  Sure enough, he was well above the low, blocky buildings along the streets that sank to the Sound.  From his perch, he spent a minute watched cargo ships meander through the water, clusters of light lazily drifting across the water.
  "James Hawk," announced a voice behind him.
  James maintained enough presence of mind to keep his grip on the girder.  He turned slowly to face the speaker.  A sturdy man with an expressionless chiseled face, clad in black, stood effortlessly on the beam behind him.  "Who- ?"
  "I'm Raziel," the man introduced himself.  "I've been assigned to be your Guardian Angel."  Raziel extended a hand, formally.
  "What-"
  "Professional bodyguard," Raziel explained, patiently.  "The best that money can buy, as it happens."
  "Who hired you?"  Self-consciously, James attempted to come to his feet.  The beam was just wide enough for him to stand with one foot in front of the other.  He wobbled a little, caught himself, then gave up and lowered himself back to sitting.  Raziel's expression didn't change.
  "I don't know.  Company policy.  It could be awkward if we're protecting both sides of a vendetta, you understand."
  "I'm not sure that I really need a bodyguard..." James began.  As he spoke, Raziel reached into his overcoat and produced a long, thin object.  With a start, James recognized it as a sniper rifle.
  "This was trained on the front door of Ostrander's from noon until about one o'clock.  Its former owner was a professional killer.  It appears that a considerable amount of wealth wants you dead, and a different considerable amount of wealth wants you alive.  If I were you, I know which side I'd be on."
  "Let me rephrase," James said carefully, keeping his eyes on the rifle.  "How can I be sure that you won't get a higher bid to have me dead tomorrow?"
  "It's in the contract," Raziel said matter-of-factly.  "It's not good business to turn on your clients halfway through the contract."  He got a distance look in his eye for a moment, presumably checking something on his HUD.  "Chase Duvier is included in my charge, as well.  We should get back to her as soon as possible."
  James considered his meeting with Spade, then remembered the sniper rifle.  It's one thing to think that the world is out to get you, and quite another to see the weapons they were out to get you with.  Of course he had no guarantee that Raziel was telling the truth.  At this height, offing him wouldn't even take the rifle, just a few pounds of force in a shove, and Raziel had ample opportunity to deliver it.  Oh well.
  [Spade, I'm out for tonight,] he messaged.  [Something came up.]  "Okay, let's go," he said out loud.
  Raziel nodded, then stepped off the edge.  He landed silently in a crouch far below on the warehouse floor.  Combat augs, James thought, picking his way carefully back around the room and down the ladder.  Raziel waited stoically as he dusted himself off.  Together they exited the warehouse.

  "Wow, we rate an Angel?" Chase said after James had performed introductions.  She seemed much less intimidated than James had been, although her cheeks still paled noticeably when Raziel showed her the rifle.
  "Pleased to make your acquiantance," Raziel said, shaking her hand.  "If I could make a suggestion."
  "Please," said Chase.
  "You should relocate living spaces immediately.  I have a number of safe houses you may find satisfactory, but this place is almost certainly a mortal danger for you both."

  A board meeting was commencing around a lavish table.  A dozen humorless men in suits entered the room and found their habitual seats.
  "Let's bring this meeting to order," suggested a younger man sitting at the table's head.  "Do you all have copies of the agenda?"  He cast his gaze around the assembled group, seeing a chorus of nods.
  "First item," he intoned.  "This month's Pandora alerts.  Charles?"
  A balding man halfway down the table cleared his throat.  "It's been a busy month for us," he began in a gruff voice.  "Four individuals provoked alerts, two in this past week."  As he spoke, a presenter stirred to life within the table's polished ebony surface; a set of faces, profile and direct, flashed past.  "Acquisition proceded smoothly in all cases.  All four subjects have been collected successfully and turned over to Terrence's department."  Terrence gave a solemn nod of confirmation from across the table.
  "Excellent news.  Gregory?  Any incidents to speak of?"
  Gregory had piercing eyes set in a face like a hatchet.  Something in his posture and his bearing set off subconsious warning bells in those who looked at him.  Even in formal wear, his stance screamed "killer."  "'Smoothly' may be an overstatement," Gregory said, in an unexpectedly soft voice. The man called Charles winced visibly.  "After our third acquisition, routine post-operation watchlisting discovered two individuals performing suspect queries on the network.  One was a bystander at the acquisition point who should have been screened and wiped."  A familiar face, captured by a monorail security camera, flashed on the screen.  Gregory cast a meaningful glance at another man around the table.  "The other was this man.  We're not certain yet what prompted him to search for the subject, as he does not appear to have any relationship with the first."  A hapless middle-aged businessman appeared on the screen.  "The second individual has been successfully eliminated, through the usual channels.  The first was to be dealt with today, but our subcontractor never reported back.  We'll be reassigning that job shortly."
  "There was the break-in last night, too," prompted the facilities manager.
  "Yes, I was getting to that," Gregory said calmly.  "Unidentified individuals apparently entered the Paradise data warehouse, tripping the security perimeter around midnight last night.  Security troops dispatched to the location were unable to find traces of any trespassers at the site.  The terminal showed records of an access attempt, but no successful breach occurred."
  "Other than that, no incidents to report.  It's been a quiet month for us."
  The man at the head of the table smiled slightly.
  "Good enough.  Gregory, be sure to inform us when the second leak has been quelched."  Gregory made an internal note to do so.  "Next item: budget."

  Raziel's safe house was actually found in a nicer neighborhood than their apartment, but the accomodations were about as modest.  It was a pair of rooms situated above a shop that sold music and instruments in one of the richer neighborhoods in the region.  Despite the wealth of the area, the shop was clearly struggling to stay afloat; gaudy signs adorning its front window proclaimed a variety of increasingly desperate sales and deals.  Across the street was a small park.  Lonely streetlights illuminated empty park benches and a dusting of still-pure white snow.  "This should serve you for the moment," Raziel said solemnly.  "Take care not to become too attached to any particular living place.  You are likely to need to move again soon."  Rent was inexpensive, but they were responsible for providing the money.  Under the circumstances, they were unlikely to protest.  "I'll do a sweep to secure the area, if you'd like to settle in a little.  I should be within a twenty-second calling distance.  If anything seems amiss, do not hesistate to send a signal."
  "So, will we be expected to stay inside?" asked Chase.
  "Of course, my advice is that a low profile would serve you best for the moment.  Keep in mind that while I'm on this assignment, you are functionally my employer.  Pursue whatever agenda you wish, but be aware that active combat increases the risk of my failure, and your imprisonment or death.  The less attention you draw to yourself, the better."
  With that, Raziel left to do his patrol.  He moved with an easy grace and without a sound: one moment he was framed in the doorway, and the next, he wasn't.  James shut the door carefully and secured it.
  The only furniture in the apartment was a bare mattress lying against one wall and a plastic desk and chair.  A window pane facing the park outside showed the snowfall outside increasing in intensity.  "Pretty," Chase remarked.
  "I suppose we should turn in for the night," James suggested.  "I've arrange to take a few weeks away from work, so I'll be around to help with the legwork.  Hopefully it won't put us into more trouble than we're already in."

  They awoke early the next morning after a fitful night's sleep in unfamiliar surroundings.  A thick blanket of snow covered the city outside.  Grey clouds unevenly filtered the morning light.  The snow continued to fall, but had subsided overnight into flurries.  From time to time, a gust of wind lifted and scattered already settled snow.
  While James prepared a spartan breakfast, Chase calibrated her projector on the unadorned wall.  She arranged and ordered a list of names and addresses in a sequence she thought would be the easiest to visit.  "I'd prefer to visit them in person," she explained.  "I know too many ways to lie over the Net."
  The first five names on the list were other researchers from Kensignton, three current employees and two former.  The final name was the most frequent non-work contact listed in the log file, a friend Alice had met once or twice a week in an area bar called the Loaded Hog.  "Let's start with the Kensington names," James said.  "They've taken her off of the directory already, so I'm not sure how optimistic I am about hearing any news.  But I'm curious to hear what their perspective is."
  As they stepped outside, Chase signalled Raziel.  She'd barely sent the message when he appeared beside them.  "No trouble last night," he reported.  "We must not have been pursued.  That was excellent luck."  James related their destination to him.  He gave easy assent.  "Shall I accompany you visibly, or otherwise?"
  "Visibly is fine, thank you," James said.
  The monorail was uncrowded, but slow to arrive.  Snow was easily melted from the track but fewer cars were deployed on lower-traffic days.  James and Chase sat across the aisle from the watchful Raziel.  Apparently, Raziel had trained himself to turn his aura of ambient lethality on and off at will.  It must be some trick of posture, expression, or body language; even James found his presence less threatening somehow.  For all the world, he was just another nondescript commuter.
  Kensington Institute was three stops longer of a trip than James' workplace was from his old house, close by to the university where he had spent so much of his time some years ago.  When they arrived at Kensington Station, James felt a wave of nostalgia.  Certainly, his college years had been filled with less undue excitement than these past few days.  The trio departed the station into a broad plaza, shielded from the weather overhead by broad arches of glass.  Pedestrians were more numerous here.  Students bustled to and from classes, while shoppers patronized a colorful array of stores around the plaza's perimeter.
  Chase bought three cups of coffee, steaming in the cold morning air, as they made their way toward one of the major streets that intersected with the plaza.  They walked leisurely along the street's broad walkways of marble as James told lighthearted stories from his times in the area.
  Kensington Institute had an imposing facade of stone columns facing the street.  A rotating door granted them entrance into a tall entryway.  A pair of preoccupied researchers bustled in beside them, shook accumulated snow from their coats and boots, and proceeded to badge themselves into a side passageway.
  An overworked receptionist and a security guard sat behind a tall desk at the back of the room.  The receptionist murmured to herself on a call, terminated it, and looked questioningly from one to the other of them.
  "We were hoping to speak to Alice Lister," James offered.  [Eh, it's worth a shot,] he sent to Chase.
  The receptionist looked baffled.  "There's never been anyone here by that name, I'm afraid.  You're the third person to ask about her this week.  Is her address wrong in the directory or something?"
  James shrugged.  "That's all right.  Could I speak to--" he paused as he summoned the list into the corner of his vision-- "Cheryl Night, Robert Faren, or Daniel Dell?"
  She consulted something at the corner of her own vision.  "Daniel is staying home today, but both Cheryl and Robert are in.  Do you have a meeting with them?"  Chase shook her head.  "That's okay.  I'll see if they're available."  She put her hand to her temple and began an inner dialog.  After a moment, she waved them through a side door.  A red LED on its side lit green as the door slid open.  "Third office on the left."
  They walked down the carpetted hallway, counting doors.  The name plate by the third read NIGHT, CHERYL in sans serif.
  "Can I help you?"  Cheryl was an impatient-looking middle-aged woman with a stern face.  She was reclining in a comfortable chair at a desk.  One wall of her office was an illuminated screen, covered with lists, impenetrable diagrams, and Greek letters in indecipherable handwriting.
  "Maybe.  You've done work with Alice Lister?" asked James again, not optimistically.
  Cheryl shook her head as a negative.  "No, I've never heard that name before.  Why do you ask?"
  As James considered how to proceed, Chase filled in.  "She was a friend of ours who went missing a few days ago, and we were under the impression that she worked here."
  Cheryl scowled thoughtfully.  "No, I'm quite certain that there's nobody here by that name."  There was motion on the screen.  "That's correct.  No publications by that name in our journals, either."  Chase opened her mouth, then closed it again.  "I'm sorry I can't help you," Cheryl continued.
  "That's okay.  Do you think you could you tell us about your research?  You work in nanotechnology, right?"
  "That's right.  We're trying to build better organs for transplant with nanotech."  She dismissed her scratch-work on the wall monitor and replaced it with one that was more neatly formatted, but not much more comprehensible to Chase or James.  "As I'm sure you know, we've long had the technology to augment the nervous and motor systems with relative freedom.  We can even do a certain amount of outright replacement, with the muscles.  But the heart, the lungs, for these we still rely on organ donation the old-fashioned way."  She made a face.  "The operation of an entire organ is several orders of magnitude more complicated than finding the right nerve endings to clamp receptors on to and decoding the signals.  On top of that, you need to deal with rejection by the body's immune system.  The small-scale stuff that they do for your optics augs just get overwhelmed.  But with nanotech, we can make organs that sense and adapt just as your body does.  Hopefully, better, because we need to be able to stay a comfortable few steps ahead."
  "How far have you gotten?  Have you built a working heart?" asked Chase, interested.
  A tall man, presumably Robert, entered the room and took a seat.
  "Oh heavens no, although we've made some good progress.  We've done design work for the heart and lungs, but our actual prototypes so far have been appendices for guinea pigs."
  "And our latest trials have been quite promising," Robert continued.  Cheryl changed the display again, to a chart of recent successes and failures.  "Our most recent models were able to outperform a biological donor by a thin margin.  If we can improve a little more, we might be able to convince the board to allow us to proceed to human trials."
  "I don't suppose you've done any design work on an artificial brain?" Chase asked.
  Cheryl laughed.  "I'd say that we need to learn to walk before we run, as they say," Robert said smoothly with a smile.
  "Robert, have you ever heard of an Alice Lister?" Cheryl inquired of her colleague, helpfully.  Robert thought for a moment and indicated that he hadn't.  "These two say that she disappeared recently, and that she used to work here.  You've never heard of her either?  Well, I'm sorry that we couldn't be more help," she said.  She seemed to be genuinely concerned.
  James and Chase thanked the researchers and shook their hands.  Raziel followed them back to the lobby and out to the street.
  [Both Cheryl and Robert had logs showing evidence of a memory wipe,] Chase sent to James as they started to navigate their way to the Loaded Hog.
  James almost tripped.  [You were scanning them the whole time we were talking?] he asked, stifling a laugh.
  [Absolutely,] she replied, smugly.
  Raziel followed them without commentary.  Unlike James, he also managed to not look like he was watching every passerby.  The Loaded Hog was a fifteen minute walk down a side street from the Institute.  Snow had settled on the walkways, but heat from the cars of morning commuters was already turning it into an ugly slurry by the roadside.  The trio left a trail of matched footprints as they walked to their next destination.
  [I'd expect that all of the names that we found in the log are the names of those they'd successfully wiped,] Chase continued as they trudged along the path.  [Naturally they would be careful to cover their bases at her workplace and wherever she spent her time.  The bar's population would be less constant, though.  There's at least a chance that they missed someone.]
  [It's the middle of the morning,] James commented.  [What are the chances that anyone in the bar would have known Alice?  And be sober and cogent enough to tell us anything, for that matter.]
  [The bartender might,] Chase said.  [I'll run her UUID against the list from the log.  Maybe we'll get lucky.]
  The Hog's address was a level below the main concourse they were currently traversing.  An old-fashioned iron staircase led down to a square cluster of closely competing restaurants and entertainment venues.  Some early morning customers nursed warm drinks, but most of the seating looked empty.  As they stomped the accumulated snow from their feet, James double-checked his GPS unit.  Peering around a corner, he saw the bar's entrance.  An arched doorway was topped with a brass statue of the front half of a pig, haplessly clutching an apple in its mouth.  [Classy,] said Raziel sardonically.  His companions glanced back at him.
  As predicted, the bartender was alone in the bar, leaning back in her chair, eyes in motion behind her lids.  In the back, the sounds of a dishwasher could be heard, presumably cleaning dirty glasses; a low-profile robotic vacuum picked its way among the bar stools, gathering debris with a low hum.  James some hot chocolate as Chase discretely ran her scan.  They sat down at a table.
  [No such luck, she's been wiped too,] Chase sent to James as warmed his hands.  [Damn.  They were thorough.  If everyone else we know who knows her, we know through that log... and if everyone in that log has been memory wiped... how can we hope to find anything new?]
  [We also have a company name, right?] James asked.  [We could try to find out what Intech is.]
  [True.  I found three companies registered under that name: one overseas and two here on the coast.]
  [Let's spend the afternoon researching them, then.  I'm sure our Angel here would be less edgy if we spend the rest of the day inside.]  James gave Raziel another look.  Raziel was as blase as ever, sitting comfortably in his chair and distractedly watching the few people wandering around the food court at this early hour.

  Nigel was out to dinner that night when he received the notification that he had been given another assignment.  He ignored the notice flashing in his peripheral vision and took his time cleaning his plate of mid-quality Indian.  One of the benefits of being a professional killer is that it affords you a certain amount of latitude in dealings with your employers.  The Assassin's Union were fantastic advocates, for some reason.
  Meal consumed and waiter tipped, he took a leisurely stroll home to enjoy the snowfall.  He'd spent the day training in academy spaces and hadn't had a chance to properly unwind yet.  His occupation had ebbs and flows of activity, as vendettas and feuds rose and fell among the local corporate jetsetters and as secret societies spun their ineffectual plots.  Lately his inbox had been overflowing with work.  It had been particularly inscrutible as of late, too, he mused as he walked.  There must be some major cover-up in progress, some sort of silent war being waged.  He had a unique perspective on such things, and often had an unparalleled vantage point on most of the undercurrents that ran through the city; a vantage point which would probably put a price on his own head if he wasn't careful not to let on how much we could infer.  It was one of the reasons he'd chosen to become an assassin some years ago.  Travel the world, the brochures had said, meet thousands of fascinating people, then kill them.  But he saw it as a way to see puzzle pieces that the oblivious public, bustling around him on the windy street side, could not and would never be able to see and place together.
  He ascended the iron staircases of his domicile, opened the door, and hung his coat in the closet, taking special care not to drip melting snow on his expensive flooring.  Shutting the door again, he projected his waiting message on the wall as he bustled around the apartment to settle in for the night.
  James' face appeared in a candid security shot.  Name withheld, ident number ADAD1EE0-EC5A-11DF-98CF-0800200C9A66, a few gigabytes of activity profile...  Whomever was behind this recent surge of employment was overwhelmingly thorough.  It made his jobs take less finesse, but at least they also took less time.  He paged through the description.  One failed mark already against this guy?  Hmm.
  Before he turned in for the night, Nigel wandered to his window, curious to see where his work would take him.  He flicked on the James' coordinate plot.
  Half of the city glowed with a faint purple fog.  "Oh, Christ."
