Infiltration

  Basic network searching revealed little about the two Intechs.  Neither had a particularly sinister web presence: both dealt in software and "cybernetics solutions," just like thousands of other companies did around the globe with varying degrees of success.  Their web pages could have been copied from one another explicitly.  Change the logo, keep the attractive, ethnically ambiguous poster people with phony grins, and shuffle the Corporate Vision statements through an appropriately trained markov model, and one could transform into the other with little effort.  For humor, James rigged up the animation: on the projected screen, one morphed smoothly into the other, then cycled through and returned to the first again in a continuous loop.
  "One of these companies is a front for a hostile force of extraordinary resources and determination, pursuing an unknown agenda of killing and kidnapping.  The other sells glorified office products."  Chase tapped her fingers on the desk and thought.
  James plowed through stock reports, industry newsletters, and any other hit he could find on either entity.  "An accountant might be able to give us an answer from this," he sighed, "but it's all mush to me."
  Raziel sat cross-legged on the floor and watched them work, for a while.  James supposed that it was only natural for him to take an interest, as he was apparently risking life and limb on behalf of it.  He wondered if Raziel would have the same look of detached bemusement if they had turned out to be running a slave ring or dealing narcotics.  About halfway through the afternoon, Raziel stood up and left, without a word.  Presumably, he was doing his rounds around the neighborhood.  They could plainly see outside their window that few people were out and about in the weather, but he was not the type to cut corners.
  "Okay, time for Plan B."  Chase sat up straight and rearranged the shared screen, bringing a set of command terminals to the foreground.  "Let's see the view from the inside."
  She gained access to the first company's site with a single command.  Financial data, staff records, internal communications, even surveillance camera footage crowded her screen within moments.  "Hmmm," she murmured thoughtfully.  Chewing on her lip, she flipped through some random screens, looking for any obvious discrepancies.
  Once she was satisfied with her access, she shut everything and brought her view back to a blank slate, then tried the second company.
  Access denied.  Fifteen minutes of different scans and tools gained no headway.
  James, who seldom saw her at work, watched with interest.  "How can you be sure that they won't catch you doing this?" he asked.
  "Oh, I can't be, that's part of the fun," she replied breezily.  "I do broadcast a scrambled ident code, though.  I keep it on most of the time I'm online, actually."  She tried one last attack.  "This place has tighter security than any bank on this coast," she announced, satisfied.  "That's our target."
  James grinned, then saw the problem.  "But if you can't get access from here..."
  "We're going to need to get it in person."

  According to public registration, the Intech in question was headquartered halfway down the coastline, about a day's trip by express rail.  Fortunately, it was the day before the weekend, so they should be able to make the trip easily.
  A message to Raziel summoned him nearly instantaneously, as before.  Chase explained their intentions.
  "That's fine, but-- If you couldn't circumvent their digital security, are you sure you can get through their physical security?" Raziel pointed out.
  "I know who could help us," James interjected suddenly.  Chase looked at him questioningly.  "Spade is old hat at this kind of stuff.  I bet he'd be able to get us in without a hitch."
  Raziel raised his eyebrows.
  "We have kind of a hobby of going places that we aren't supposed to go," James explained.  "Usually abandoned buildings and the like.  Spade has been doing it for much longer than I have.  I've never asked for the details, but he's got a bit of a spotted past.  He had a reputation for not confining his exploring to the abandoned or the unsecured."
  As he spoke, James fired a quick message to his friend, and had a reply back almost before he finished his sentence.  Spade had been itching for some action for a while, and missing their meeting the other night had only aggravated his impatience.  They arranged a meeting the next morning and set to work, booking a cheap hotel room and continued doing as much research on the facility that they could over the net.

  Spade met them at the monorail.  The car was crowded with people trying to get away from the snow for a weekend, so they had to bring him up to speed by secure messaging.  On one hand, he'd never met Alice, and he didn't share James' sense of altruism; on the other hand, this was a chance to crack his way though some really stiff security for what his friends assured him was a worthy cause, and he was all about doing that.
  Raziel spent the trip lying across a pair of seats, looking sound asleep and utterly disinterested with the world.  Only Chase could bemusedly note that his passive scanners were on high alert.  It had been an awkward introduction between he and Spade.  Personality conflicts aside, it had occurred to James midway through that, while Raziel was committed to keeping them alive and well, even at great risk to life and system, he had no such obligations toward Spade.
  Fortunately, Spade was well equipped to look after his own skin.  James had never known him to carry weapons, but he caught a glance of a long knife at Spade's belt as they met.
  The monorail trip was otherwise uneventful.  James, Chase, and Spade all passed the time reading, sleeping or watching the scenery.  As they made it further and further south, the snow faded away and was replaced by the cold, barren winter soil underneath.  They soon overtook the clouds and saw sunlight again for the first time in days.
  The train arrived at their destination in late evening.  The station was bathed in overbright streetlight flare and scrubbed clean, but uncrowded.  This region was primarily an industrial district; tall, flat warehouses formed an uneven, boxy horizon.  A thin layer of smog filtered the crimson sky.
  Their hotel was several blocks away.  Presumably, it was patronized by visiting plant inspectors and the like, and accordingly, their rooms were utilitarian, but mostly clean.  They held a conference in Chase's room to determine their plan of attack.  As the others arrived, she sat cross-legged on the floor and arranged a projection of the Intech facility in front of her in hazy, green hologram.
  James, Spade, and Raziel all filed in and sat around the room.
  "This is our target," she announced.  "Intech headquarters, at the outskirts of the Nevada industrial quarter.  It's about half of a mile from the nearest plant, nestled in a valley in the foothills of the Rocky Mountains.  A bit of a strange address for the world headquarters of an multinational software company, don't you think?"
  "So we have the front entrance here," Spade pointed to a broad, boxy doorway at the end of a long road that led from the valley's mouth, "and a shipping entrance for supplies all along here," he waved his hand along the back edge of the main building.
  "That's right, although this is just the low-res mapping data that's publicly available.  If we need it, I could acquire municipal records with sewer and ventilation data."
  Spade shook his head.  "Those never work as well as you want them to.  It's a great way to make a ton of noise and it's horrible to explain why you're there when someone inevitably checks on you.  No, I was going to suggest walking right in the front door."
  Raziel laughed.  "You favor the direct approach, do you?"
  "Absolutely.  Classic social engineering.  We'll just tail someone else in and walk around like we own the place."
  "We won't need badges or ident codes on some list or something?" asked James, nervously.
  "Only if someone thinks to check, right?  And remember, it's the weekend.  If we were called in now, we obviously have something high priority to be doing, and we're probably not in a mood to be talking about it."
  "Aren't you worried about sticking out?" Raziel asked, pointing to Spade's hair.
  Spade shrugged.  "It's a software company," he said.  "I might not be pierced enough."
  "Once we're inside, what are our priorities?" Chase asked.
  "Well, Chase, if you could find someone's login, that would be helpful.  Other than that, I guess we won't know until we see it," said James.
  "I suppose that's it, then," said Chase.  "What time should we set out tomorrow?"
  "We should be in place to watch pretty early, maybe six or so.  Awake at five?" Spade glanced around at each of them, receiving a confirming nod.  "It's settled then, see you tomorrow."
  [I'm not sure I can pull this off,] said James.
  [You could stay behind, maybe?] she offered, concerned.
  [No, I got us in to this.  I just hope I don't blow it for everyone.]
  [You'll be fine,] Chase comforted him.  [Just don't worry about it so much.]

  Early the following morning, the four of them were lounging in the shadows of an alleyway near the Intech facility's entrance.  A broad roadway led from between the forest of buildings, across a short stretch of desert, then up a short incline and through in a low pass in the steeper terrain to the north and south.
  [It even looks like an evil fortress,] James said.  [You'd think they would at least try to make it not look like something out of a bad cartoon.]
  [I guess they aren't that worried about PR,] Chase replied.
  It was half an hour before they saw the first hovertruck pass en route to the building.  Spade stood up to begin making his way down the road after it, but Chase stopped him.  [Security truck,] she broadcasted, pointing to the floodlight mounted on the cab.
  Fortunately, another truck followed just a few minutes later.  As it passed, they left their waiting post and wandered down the road after it.  Errant grains of sand wafted through the air in the wake of the truck's propulsion field, glittering as they caught the early morning sun.
  The Intech headquarters looked less like a fortress in person than James had alluded to earlier, aside from its highly defensible position within the surrounding terrain.  It was a series of squat one and two story buildings of unassuming glass.  Inside the windows, they could see nothing out of the ordinary office fare: rubber plants, monitors, clean carpets.  The generic logo from their Net site was emblazoned proudly beside the front door.  The parking dock was to the right of the main entrance, a small set of magnetic attachments set beside a broad oval of roadway.
  It took careful timing to arrive at the front door just behind the truck's driver.  Spade adjusted his pace accordingly and the others walked behind him as casually as they could manage.  The man they followed looked like he belonged to the building's maintenance force, perhaps, wearing a faded pair of coveralls with a wrench at his belt.
  James's heart was pounding as they passed through the doorway.  A young woman unfortunate enough to be the weekend receptionist sat behind a table, chewing a stick of gum and looking bored.  The man tipped his hat and walked by.  A door in the far wall flashed green and slid silently open as he approached.  He held the door for them, helpfully.
  Spade gave the receptionist an easy wave as he accepted the door and held it for his "co-workers."  Just like that, they were in.

  The four infiltrators split into a different corridor than the maintenance man as soon as the opportunity presented itself.  James breathed more easily once they were alone, but his heart still pounded in his ears.  In his imagination, blaring alarm sirens were moments away.
  [Which way?] he asked the others.  Spade shrugged and kept walking.
  Chase was already discretely trying doors on offices as they passed.  It wasn't long until she found one that was helpfully unlocked.  The office space inside was small and unremarkable, but Chase immediately went to work patting around the desk drawers and the trash can for sticky notes.  Unfortunately for them, this particular employee was too security-minded for the obvious lapses of judgement.  Raziel absently regarded some of the cheap artwork on the walls as she worked, while James and Spade tried to stay out of her way.
  "Jackpot," she announced quietly as she was giving the desk another scan.  She held a passcard in her hands triumphantly, then pocketed it.  "I'll bet that this takes us somewhere interesting."
  Spade opened the door and walked out into the corridor; James winced, fighting the nervous instinct to creep his way and test around every corner.
  The continued their way down the corridor.  Before long, they reached its end, in a door clearly marked as a fire exit (alarm will sound).  Another corridor branched off to their right, but more interestingly, a door to their left was labelled "stairs".
  [Wasn't this building one story?] Chase asked, as James turned the knob.  Inside, they saw a staircase leading down, into a basement.
  [Excellent,] Spade said, following.
  At the base of the stairs, the office building facade was abruptly lifted.  An imposing door of thick steel barred their path.  Chase stepped forward, shrugged, and waved the card over a control panel on the nearby wall.  Without a sound, the door slid open, and they stepped inside.
  A wide concrete path illuminated at regular intervals by bare light bulbs stretched before them.  It was easily twice as long as the building above.  More steel doors inset with transparent windows lined the corridor they walked.  About halfway to the other side, another corridor bisected theirs.
  James walked excitedly to the nearest door and peered in the window.  The others crowded around him.  The room on the other side looked like a laboratory.  Steel lab tables formed three horizontal rows across the room.  On the table tops, plants grew within glass domes.  Each dome housed a different species of plant: some had bright flowers, some were little more than moss.  He glanced back at Chase, who shrugged.
  Other doors seemed to open on other laboratories, but each seemed to be studying something different.  Some were filled with vats of unidentified liquids.  Some were filled with thin beams of laser light.  All of them were firmly locked, and none opened at the touch of Chase's procured passcard.
  Once they reached the cross corridor, they were able to see more lab doors also lined along its length, but to their surprise, one of its far ends opened into a much larger room.  Curious, James led them toward it.
  The corridor they exited led them onto a sturdy iron catwalk that ran the perimeter of a room almost as wide as the corridors had been long.  Lines of bright florescent lights mounted from the ceiling bathed the room in an uncanny light.  Meters below them, huge vats of grey liquid sat dormant in a purposeful but uneven grid.  Between the vats, long tables with smaller lights lined the empty spaces, sometimes accompanied by what Spade recognized as fabrication and manufacturing equipment.
  A nearby ladder led them down to the lab floor below.  They picked their way through the cluttered lab space, careful not to disturb anything as they passed.  Occasionally, the tables were topped with structures that James felt that he could almost recognize, but was utterly unable to place.  [It's certainly nothing you could buy on the market today,] he told the others silently.  [What are they trying to build here?]
  They rounded one of the vats and stopped.  A wide space between this vat and the next was almost empty.  A single pedestal rose in the middle of the floor.  It looked empty at first glance, but once they approached it, they could plainly see a microchip seated carefully on the concrete.  James scanned it for any distinguishing marks, but once again was unable to find any.
  [Chase, Spade,] he asked urgently, [Do either of you see any security triggers in this pillar?]
  They stepped forward and subjected to the pillar to intense scrutiny.  [Nothing shows up on my scan,] Spade replied after a moment.  [As far as I can tell, that pillar is entirely unelectronic.]
  [No laser cages or other nasty tricks that I can see,] Chase confirmed.
  [I can't find anything either,] Raziel said.  [It looks entirely unprotected.]
  [Then let's grab something to study later, shall we?] James said with an adrenaline-fueled grin.  He reached out a shaking hand and lifted the chip from its cradle.  No alarms sounded.  No guards rushed in.  No machine gun emplacements rose from the concrete floor to pepper them with high-velocity bullets.  James breathed a little more easily.  On a whim, he slipped it into a storage compartment he'd installed in his arm.

  They found nothing more of interest in their scan of the fabrication floor, despite frequent stops at workbenches.  [What are these people, allergic to documentation?] Chase asked.  [We should have at least found somebody's blueprints or something by now...]  None of her companions could come up with an answer.
  After they'd satisfied themselves that there were no stunning revelations to be found, Raziel suggested that perhaps they should stop pushing their luck and make an exit.  [I'm a little suspicious that we haven't seen any weekend security at all,] he commented.  [As secretive as they've been, I would have expected this facility to be crawling with guards and cameras.]
  Spade concurred with a frown.  [Let's walk out the way we came,] he suggested.  [Chase, you should probably replace that passcard on the way out to cover our tracks.]  She reluctantly assented.
  They re-climbed the ladder to the catwalk and made their way back into the corridor.  They were almost to the crossing point when Spade perked up and stopped them with a hand gesture.  [I hear footsteps around the corner,] he said.  [Think we can pull off nonchalant well enough?]
  Without waiting for a reply, he strode boldly into the intersection and marched off toward the heavy door they had used to enter, not even looking down the hall.  Like he owned the place, right.  Nobody called out a sound.
  Chase and Raziel exchanged a shrug and walked after him.  James couldn't resist what he hoped was an idle glance down the corridor.  There was nobody to be seen.  Maybe they had ducked into one of the labs?
  The bland corridor upstairs was as deserted as it had been when they'd arrived.  A janitorial robot whirred across their vantage point down the hallway.
  Spade glanced up and down the hall.  [What's wrong?] asked James, thinking that he seemed a touch on edge.
  [Something's not right,] Spade replied tersely.  [But I can't put my finger on it... Chase, get that passcard back and let's go.]
  Chase tried the office they'd entered earlier.  The door wouldn't budge.  [Shit.  Locked.]
  Four figures materialized in the hallway, two on each side of them.  Unlike most, the guards were visibly augmented, bare metal and flesh intermixed, all aesthetics scrapped in favor of inpenetrable electronic strength.  Each stood an imposing two feet higher than even Raziel, and each shared an identical, sternly emotionless face.  Each also clutched a bulky sidearm.
  Before anyone could react, one of the guards behind them opened fire.  The weapon's fire was a soundless shock wave: it must be a rail gun, a magnetic accelerator that fired enormous slugs of dense metal with tremendous energy.  Spade's head and torso separated from his body and vanished, blowing a massive hole through the wall beside him.  His combat knife, half-drawn, clattered to floor.  His legs toppled with a twitch and settled into a slowly growing pool of blood seeping through the immaculately clean carpetting.
  James frantically turned to face Raziel, but Raziel had already leapt.  One of tall guards fell to his knees, his head twisted at an unnatural angle; his railgun discharged uselessly into the floor, carving a crater with a resounding dull thunk.  Raziel was already in motion to the next, sleek and cat-like as the remaining three tried vainly to track him with their weapons.
  Chase grabbed James urgently by the arm, dragging him through the newly created exit beside them.  James slipped on the wide spray of blood in the adjacent room and fought the sudden urge to vomit.  There was no sign of Spade's top half, just a scorched hole of charred plastic and shattered glass.  They emerged in the building's exterior grounds to sounds of shot after shot behind them.  As one, they broke into a sprint.
  Raziel joined them with an effortless stride, oversized railgun clutched in his hands.  He fired a slug into the air above them.  James glanced up to see why just in time to see the helicopter, engine trailing smoke, careen listlessly into the canyon wall with a brilliant orange burst of flame.
  A pair of hovertrucks converged on the valley's entrance in an attempt to block them off.  Raziel took a careful shot as he sprinted, blowing one neatly into the mountain wall.  He charged ahead of James and Chase, clearing the distance to the second in a single blurred leap.  The truck's driver swung it into a sharp curve in an attempt to throw off his aim, but it was too late.  Raziel had already landed on its roof and punched through the flimsy material.  He lifted the driver bodily into the air with one hand, tossing him away in a high arc.  A follow-up shot with the railgun made him explode in mid-air.  Particles rained against the far valley wall.
  He settled into the driver's seat and threw the passenger door open for James and Chase, who were just arriving, panting for breath.  Raziel wasn't even winded.  As far as James could tell, he hadn't changed expression through the entire ordeal.  Chase scrambled into the back seat as James lost his fight against his stomach.  He leaned out the still-open passenger's side doorway and was sick in a wide trail as Raziel pulled the truck away and gunned its drive into the desert.

  They ditched the hovertruck as soon as they were out of sight of Intech's entrance road.  No more helicopters appeared in pursuit, but presumably, reinforcements were on the way.  Raziel let them out, then disabled the truck's repulsion cushion, settling it gently into a ditch.  Wordlessly, Chase scanned the truck's exposed bottom.  She removed a small, black box.  Raziel looked at her questioningly.  "GPS tracking and recording unit," she said tersely.  Raziel nodded, picked up the unit, and loaded it into the railgun.  He fired it high into the mountains, then ditched the gun in the truck's cab.
  A covered alleyway a block or two within the industrial quarter's edge gave them a temporary refuge.  They sat in the dusty trash and waited.  Fifteen minutes later, they could hear a cavalcade of helicopters passing overhead.
  James curled his arms around himself and sobbed.  The shock of the attack was wearing off, and his grief was catching up with him.  Chase put a comforting arm around him.
  "I... apologize for not being quick enough to protect your friend," Raziel said with stiff formality.  A pained shadow passed over his expression, the first emotion that James had seen him show.  "I... neglected to tell you, but my protection does extend to your companions as well.  But I can never entirely guarantee your safety, either, you understand."  He paused.  "You can be assured that I will redouble my efforts toward your security."
  "Without you, we wouldn't be here either," Chase pointed out.  "So thank you for that."  Raziel lowered his head, and they were silent for a while.
  When the last helicopter had passed over them and the roar of the rotors had faded into a distant rumble over the mountains, James stirred himself.  "How soon should we get to the monorail?" he asked.
  "I expect that they'll be watching the Nevada station too closely for us to escape that way.  There's another station about twenty kilometers to the north.  I suggest that we hike there instead."  Chase projected a map on the alley floor and traced a route through the perfect grid of streets.  "That should give us a chance to compose ourselves before we board the train, anyway."  James nodded, wiping his tears on his sleeve.
  The hike was reassuringly eventless.  The streets were quiet, but not empty, giving them a comfortable amount of cover to proceed.  Active industrial plants covered them in with grimy spots of soot as they walked.  After an hour or so, they reached the limits of the industrial square; stopping in a public restroom, they did their best to clean off the black splotches.  From here, Chase estimated that they had another three or four hours of hiking through the bare desert to reach their destination.
  They followed a north-bound roadway through the desert.  No traffic passed during the entire trip, but they were still careful to stay out of sight down an embankment.  They hiked in silence, vocal and digital.  Only Chase periodically updated them with readouts from the golden destination marker projected on her HUD.
  The monorail station they sought serviced a small suburban development.  Green lawns and artifical lakes contrasted starkly with the barren beauty of the desert around them, and were especially jarring to James and Chase, who were already used to the snow and rain of the winterscape that awaited them back north.  At the station itself, a few visitors or residents out to perform chores waited idly on benches as they arrived.  James felt like they stood out in sharp contrast to the others waiting at the station, battle-scarred and hardened, but nobody gave them a second glance.
  The train glided smoothly into the station, on schedule to the moment.  They embarked with the other travellers.
  As the train departed under the mid-afternoon sun, James felt the exertions of the past day catching up with him.  He'd never been able to sleep in moving vehicles, but he let his mind wander as the landscape outside