Witness

  He should have been just another oblivious bystander.  When Alice Lister vanished from plain sight on a cold January evening, no alarms were raised, no notice was given, no cry was heard.  A thousand passersby bustled about the crowded monorail platform, each ensconsed firmly within their own private worlds, navigating their daily commutes on autopilot driven by habit or HUD display.  To many, she was another faceless, nameless blur along the route.  Not that to her, the others weren't the same: she had walked and ridden this route twice daily for years herself and, had the same happened to any of her compatriots, would have been just as unable to help.
  If she'd vanished on the boarding ramp as she departed, maybe more would have noticed.  Instead, she disembarked as she always had and was most of the way to the gate before it happened.  She stumbled, as though tripping on an errant shoelace; a brief look of concern crossed her face; then her expression was wiped curiously blank before she toppled to the plastic floor.  When a conscious person falls, they instinctively put out their hands to break the impact or at least shield their faces.  Alice toppled as though a bored child had dropped her marionette strings.
  James Hawk had known her from a previous life as a graduate student.  They had shared attendance in a number of classes, and worked together on a project or two; and while they had not occupied the same social circles (what little social circles they had had time for) he'd easily recognized her.  There were few classmates that James had successfully maintained contact with after graduation, but many that he remembered as pleasant company, so he had just made a note to get in touch with her later if he couldn't catch up when he saw her fall.  Frowning, he increased his pace through the crowd, bumping people in his way and earning his share of agitated glares.
  The platform was a small plaza designed to hold only as many paying customers as could comfortably ride a single train.  It didn't take more than thirty seconds to close the gap to where he had seen her fall.  Nevertheless, when he made it to the gates there was no Alice to be found, upright or otherwise.
  A man waiting on a bench nearby gave him a quizical look.  "What's the big rush?"
  "There was a woman here," James said.  "She just fell?"
  His stare turned suspicious.  "No, there was nobody there," the man responded, clearly doubting his sanity or his eyesight.
  "My mistake," James mumbled.  Maybe she had merely stumbled?  But chance had given him such a clear view of the fall.  You didn't fall like that and walk away without somebody noticing.

  Life had been neither overly kind nor overly cruel to James since he completed his education.  He worked the register at an independent electronics hobby shop in a bustling market downtown.  It wasn't a sturdy living, but it paid his rent, food, and power.  He had also accrued a reputation as a knowledgable clerk among the shop's clientelle, and a retail job is made that much more pleasant with the respect and conversation of your patrons.
  Moreover, it had introduced him to his current girlfriend of some years, Chase.  Chase was a hacker.  Ostensibly, she was a software freelancer or a security specialist; but even the thickest of her clients knew they were really hiring a console jockey.  Naturally, this gained her more business than it had lost her.  It had been a replacement memory extension that had brought them together.  Like many with heads for software, she tended to think of her hardware platform as a canvas awaiting paint, and tended to pay only as much attention to the physical stuff as she needed to for the compile to finish cleanly.  With implant hardware, not all modules are created equally.  James had given her a brand recommendation that saved her six months of seizures and another thousand credits, because he was ethical, and a discount, because he found her attractive.
  These days, they shared an apartment in a region of the endless city that was more affordable than nice or gentrified.  The somewhat elevated crime rate they dealt with by spending money on things that were difficult to steal.  It takes a determined criminal to steal an optic implant or a steady uplink, and nobody wants twelve boxes of month-old ramen noodles.
  James paced home through the dirty steel streets, shivering and pensive.  He was shaken from his encounter at the station, imagined or not, and furthermore he felt a certain reluctance to share his thoughts with Chase.  It wasn't that she would be jealous, or not believe him; it was that he knew full well that he had a creduluous streak, and suspected that he'd feel silly as soon as he voiced his worries, which seemed less substantive with each passing minute.  If only he'd been recording video... but who wastes storage on running chores?  He resolved to leave her a message that night.  It would be good to reunite regardless, and maybe he could turn his latest vicarious panic attack into something productive for a change.
  The wind blew a strong gust; heavy clouds covered a grey sky, the diminuitive sun a red haze at the horizon.  James huddled his coat tighter and walked on.

  When he stepped into the apartment, Chase was reclined on the sofa, hard at work.  Her eyes flicked open as the door opened, smiled a greeting, and shut again, pupils busy under the lids.
  "Hey, Chase.  Got a client?" James inquired by way of introduction.  He wandered through the living room, shedding his coat as he warmed to the electric heat.
  "Yeah," she replied easily, "nothing exciting, though, just some small-time corporate espionage shenanigans, but it'll pay."
  "Whatever keeps you off the streets," he answered lightly, making his way to the kitchen.  He fixed himself a leisurely dinner, then collapsed in a worn-down easy chair to join her.
  "Anything exciting happen today?"
  "Remember Alice?  Alice Lister?"
  "A little.  You went to school together, right?"  Eyes open again.
  "Oh, I bumped into her on the way back, or thought I saw her at any rate.  I was thinking that it's been a while, maybe I should see if she wants to meet up.  Would you mind?"
  "Sure, sounds fun," she assented easily.  "She works on nanotech, right?"
  "Um-- yeah, I think you're right.  Career researcher at Kensington Institute, I believe."
  "Well, send her a message, and let me know what time I'll need to be conscious."  Eyes flipped shut again.  Talking to Chase in the middle of a problem could be disorienting sometimes.  She'd never not pay attention, per se, but she did have a tendency to flip from world to world while you were going through the lengthy process of thinking of what to say next.  To James, who had difficulty tying his shoe and answering a question at the same time, her ability to context-switch in rapid succession was an eternal source of bemusement and admiration.
  Task in sight, he flipped on his HUD and fired off a few lines of text to Alice's address, which fortunately he had kept on file.
  It was only a few minutes until the bounceback arrived.  No such user.  Well, that was rare to see.  Electronic addressing was tied to your genetic code and supposed to be both static for life and unique (identical twins and cloning nonwithstanding).
  Maybe she was on the directory somewhere?  Basic people searches showed no such person; he broadened his queries and the virtual screen projected in his eyes filled with a sea of unfamiliar faces, unrecognized lives.  Even more curious, Kensington's portal showed clear staff records, but showed no sign of employing or ever having employed Alice.  The sense of foreboding that James had been fighting all evening steadily returned in force.  "Stranger and stranger," he muttered.
  "Pardon?"
  James flipped off his view, sat up, and related his difficulties, finally elaborating on his earlier encounter at the monorail.  "It's been bothering me all evening," he confessed.  He could tell by the new light in her eyes that this was a far more intruiging problems than cracking into a small-time CEO's porn collection.  With relief and curiosity fighting his apprehension, James relaxed somewhat, curious to see what Chase could dig up.
  Touching a control on the couch, she projected a screen onto the bare plaster wall so they could share together, but maintained her neural control.  Muttering, she paged rapidly through a family of directory services, search engines, records and logs.  James watched in fascination, pointing to promising leads and helping when he could.
  According to the network, Alice Lister simply did not exist.  Privacy shields are available and not uncommon, but everyone's life leaves a digital trail through the network: the food you buy, the books you read, and the pages you visit all form a shadowy presence, leaving currents through an electric river.  Even the unenhanced are assigned network addresses and touch the Net when they attend school or work or volunteer.  According to the computers, Alice not only didn't work at her job, she hadn't been riding the monorail, this evening or any other, and she had never been awarded her degree, which James has seen with his own two eyes.
  "Now this is curious," Chase repeated.  "You say that you saw her fall?" she asked.
  "Not twenty meters from me," James confirmed.  A thought struck him.  "But a man at the bench in plain sight of her said that he saw nobody.  I thought that I was seeing things."
  "Maybe you were, or maybe he wasn't.  I'd like to look at your control unit."
  It's a strange kind of intimacy to be debugged by your significant other.  Implant maintenance ports are concealed at the base of the neck; readings or backups can be taken by special chairs, or short-range handheld units, and are generally done by an impartial man with degrees in electrical engineering and medecine.  Direct links are shielded by walls of conscious thought and offer limited access to basic functions, so that an attacker can't, for example, turn off your heart from across the street.  But so much of James' gear was customized and tinkered with so frequently that Chase had elevated access.  It was partially a gesture of trust and partially a concession to convenience; and, even at his most cynical, James reasoned that if she wanted to do him in she could get the job done a lot more cheaply with a lead pipe.
  "No errors logged in the optics, connections in good repair," Chase muttered.  James heard her voice in a strange not-quite-echo, more of a harmonic resonance.  "Oh ho ho.  What's this?"
  "What is it?" he asked, fighting the urge to crane his neck.
  "There's an entry in your firewall logs," she said.  His firewall had been a custom job by one of Chase's friends, who had dubbed it 'Paranoiac.'  "It looks like somebody tried to access your subsystems..."
  "Why would someone hack my brain to make me see an old friend trip?"
  "No, no, it was logged and defeated.  They didn't get in.  And in fact," she noted with a certain note of satisfaction, "they would have if you'd been running standard over the counter software.  Paranoiac scans by behavior, not by signature."  She ran another check, which James felt as a slight buzz.  "Yeah, nothing on the market watches for this one.  I bet everybody else were sitting ducks."
  James paused to reflect on the rare feeling that, for once, everyone else had been the crazy ones with eyes that didn't work.  "So.  Who was doing the probing?"
  "Can't tell.  It was a broadcast job, no return address."  Chase unhooked the cable, careful not to bend a pin.  "Somebody took great pains to make your friend disappear, and effectively, too.  This was a job that took serious cash.  I know I don't have the kind of reach to pull that off, or even walk in the circles that would.  Are you sure that you want to be mixed up with this?"
  James nodded solemnly.  "It's one thing to map failure rates on neural links and risk getting sued, and another entirely to abandon an innocent bystander.  Especially as the only witness."
  "Alright," Chase replied, after a moment of hesitation.  "I guess I'm with you.  I'm too curious now myself.  And it's not like I hesistate to step on someone's toes from time to time."
  "Thanks," James said, sincerely.
  "Sometimes, I just wish that you chose smaller windmills to tilt at."

  A restless night and a frigid morning later found James walking to work.  The neon sign adorning the shopfront noisily proclaimed "Ostrander's Specials;" a narrow catwalk spanned the length of the unkempt street, and ladders lifted and descended at regular intervals.  The small shop was nestled between a tobacconist's and a tatoo and piercing parlour, which contributed a variety of interesting smells and sounds throughout the workday.  Tenuous puffs of breath left James' mouth as he unlocked and swung open the door, tinkling the bell.  The store was as ice cold as the outside air.  James flipped on the heat at an aged thermostat and hung his coat by the door.
  Ostrander's was a smorgasbord of specialty electronics for a range of budgets and wattages.  They somehow catered to both the discriminating augmented and to the indulgent luddite at once.  A variety of older wares hung along one wall, to better service those with out-of-date form factors and not enough cash to do a full upgrade.  Installations and tune-ups were offered for a negotiable fee, as long as no serious surgery was required.  Electronics in static-free bags hung carefully organized from hooks in breadboard walls, itemized, organized and priced.  Shelves and drawers full of smaller items lined the walls.  Despite its organization, the shop managed to exude an aura of disarray and clutter, full of the smell of half-finished projects, ozone and plywood.
  Fontaigne Street in the market district was out of the way and a little hidden, but well-known to Ostrander's clientelle.  James had a busy morning.  Three customers were looking for a replacement to a defective hip control module, popular among players of certain street sports; another few sought advice on upcoming sensory recording modules, including one successful pre-order; another came to get advice on a faulty actuator that gave her an uncomfortable tic throughout the night.  The store kept a steady flow of browsers through the day, for which James was thankful- they contributed to the heat.  The energy from a full shop almost entirely counteracted the chill let in by the active door.
  By his lunch break, James was fully in his element once again.  His cheap sushi from a store two levels up and a block over wasn't harmed overly much by the cold winter air.
  The afternoon was considerably quieter: a few browsers wandered in and out, but he found ample time to catch up on a novel he was reading, reclined behind his desk, eyes scanning the ceiling.  Some, like Chase, flipped online with their eyes shut, presumably to keep the world at bay for improved focus.  James put a high value on his situational awareness and thus worked eyes open.  In his more paranoid moments, he told himself it was to prevent anyone from sneaking up on him, just as he made it a point to never sit with his back to the door and so on.  Pragmatically speaking, it allowed him to quickly snap back when a customer (or his boss) showed up and have no gummy eyes to betray him.  What's more, Chase's proximity alert was much more highly sensitive to motion and sound and scent than native human instincts could be.  Regardless, he had no problem snapping back to reality the minute that his friend Spade stopped by.
  Spade was a professional punk.  He'd held a number of day jobs and night jobs and any other jobs that didn't require him to interact much with other people, because he was abrasive as hell and took pains to look the part: leather, metal, and green hair.  A lambda tatoo stood out quite prominently on his forearm.  Unlike Chase, he fully looked the part of devil-may-care hacker, but also unlike Chase, he had virtually zero skill in that area.  James liked him because he stuck to his principles, even at the cost of living a harder life, and because he was a nigh inexhaustible source of hilarious stories, most of which were probably true.  Spade was not one to hesitate to laugh at his own expense.
  "Hey, James, what's up?"
  "Oh, not much.  Busy morning, quiet afternoon.  I take it you got laid off again?"
  Spade shook his head a firm but good-natured negative.  "Nope, late lunch.  We're doing construction work down by the harbor."  He wandered around the shop as he talked, flipping absently through neck actuator packages.  "There's some killer spaces a few blocks over, though.  Think you'd like to check it out?"
  James perked up with interest.  He and Spade were members of the city's Urban Explorers' guild, in as much as it tracked things like membership.  Urban exploration is a kind of modern spelunking, but instead of wandering natural caverns, urban explorers are drawn to abandoned spaces in the midst of the city.  Forgotten buildings, skyscrapers whose property values had plummetted in some stock crash or another, disused industrial plants, or hospitals in districts without cash; these are the detritus of modern society.  Any city these days is spotted with them, often in plain sight, mere blocks from wealthier and more populous regions.  Breaking in to these structures was not exactly legal, but when nobody has enough equity to care, silent trespassers are almost never persecuted.  And silent is what these trespassers were.  Guild policy was to leave every discarded candy wrapper as it was when they arrived, taking only pictures or videos of the abandoned treasures they discover.
  It was also not the safest of hobbies.  Empty spaces aren't subject to the hermetic safety guidelines and inspections that occupied ones are.  Shattered windows and rusty metal often pepper the floor like falled snow, and a disused elevator shaft can make a fatal fall.  It's highly recommended that the novie explorer stay well clear of sewage and heat pipes until they amass considerable experience.  Urban exploration is driven by equal parts of thrill seeking and insatiable curiosity.  James found it fascinating.  It felt a touch voyeuristic, like flipping through a diary, but these silent records gave him the feeling of discovering something that nobody else could see.  It was as though he could punch through the shield of the ordinary and comfortable and lay eyes on a secret history, unfettered by agenda, unfiltered by relevance.
  Most of their discoveries were quite mundane.  It's a sort of game to divine the purpose of each room they visit, by layout or by remnants.  A hospital's waiting room can be difficult to identify without the reception desk and most of the seats.  Sometimes, they never can arrive at a conclusion.  Sometimes, dried blood on the walls makes them wish they could.
  "I was thinking about seeing it tonight.  What do you say?" Spade offered congenially.
  "Maybe," said James.  "I'll have to consult with Chase."  Spade made an exagerrated whipping motion with his arm.  "We're actually working on a project together, or a problem, or a question or something.  I'm not sure if there's much that we can do tonight, though, so I'll ask when she's not busy.  Tomorrow night if we can't?"
  "Hey, sure.  Just drop me a line when you can.  I'll be around.  Work goes to six."  Plans in place, Spade wandered out of the shop again.

  The rest of the day passed without event.  James made it steadily through another set of chapters before a subtle alarm flashed on his HUD, announcing Closing Time.  He fired an affectionate one-liner to Chase and started to gather up the shop.
  With a whistle, he shut the expensive wares in the safe and gave the nub a thumb to engage the lock.  The shop was little more than a single room, so a giving the stock a once-over took only a few minutes.  Satisfied with the day's work, he lifted his coat off of its hook and bundled it tightly before braving the cold.
  He shut and locked the door behind him, then stuck his hands in his pockets and started the long march to the monorail and his warm home-- then, abruptly, stopped.  With a frown, he withdrew his hand to inspect the paper slip he had discovered.
  It was small and marked only with a pair of handwritten characters, which he quickly recognized as numbers in hexadecimal:

  B547 1D2EB

  Clearly it had been left by one of the shop's customers that day.  Thinking back, James couldn't place anyone walking near the coat, but decided that it would have been quite possible to place any number of times that morning.  It wasn't a particularly nice coat, so he didn't guard it with nearly the vigilance that, say, Spade did his.
  He committed the digits to hardware for less fragile storage, then continued his walk home.  Could this have anything to do with Alice, or was he just chasing shadows?

  Twenty minutes later, he found himself in his cozy (or cluttered) apartment, exchanging pleasantries once more with Chase.  Without much hesitation he produced the paper.
  "So, I found this in my pocket as I was leaving the shop," he explained, handing it to her.
  She took the slip with a quiet laugh.  "You're going to be finding hidden messages every time you open a fortune cookie, aren't you?" she quipped.
  "Well, if I get fortune cookies like this, sure.  Any ideas?"
  She studied it for a moment.  "Latitude and longitude?" she ventured.  "Let's see, that's..." her lips worked soundlessly for a moment, "46,407 and... 119,531, right?"
  "... Yep," confirmed James.  "Show off," he grinned good-naturedly.
  Chase's expression took on a far-away aspect for a moment.  "If we say three decimal places, that puts us at Rainier," she said.  "That's just a few hours' trip."
  "Rainier?"
  Chase shrugged.  Mount Rainier, a formidable peak and dormant volcano, had somehow escaped the relentless march of urbanization that had covered most of the planet with endless city.  It was one of the last natural parks in the world.  Acres upon acres of conifer forest lay relatively untouched since mining operations half a millenium ago.  Possibly, a generation of urban planners had hesitated to build in its shadow for fear of another eruption.  Probably a wise move, but interest in tourism had over the year as cybernetics took hold.  It's difficult to Get Away From It All when a day or so away from a power socket can leave you virtually crippled.
  "You're going to drag us out there looking for Alice, aren't you?" she said, half mock-incredulous and half as an offer.
  James hesitated.  "Well.  If this is related to her... disappearance... at all, then there's a pretty good chance that it's a trap somehow.  But... we don't have much else to go on, do we?  This might be the only chance we get to find out what happened to her."
  "Yeah," Chase admitted, "I haven't been able to dig up a single hit on her.  I can't even find an image match from the monorail surveillance..."
  "I won't ask you to come with me--" he started.
  "Nonsense.  I said that I wanted to see this through, so I'm with you."  She thought for a moment.  "Let's take a roundabout route to those coordinates, maybe come at it from higher ground so that we have a better chance of seeing what's there.  And anyway, if it was a trap, you'd think they would give you a time, too, right?  Let's show up at midnight or so."
  "Alright," James assented.  "I guess if they wanted me to disappear too, it'd be much easier to send someone here or along the commute anyway."  He considered that thought soberly for a moment.  "Um, maybe I'll take a different train tomorrow morning..."
  Chase laughed.
