Pandora

  Possibly because they had just stolen the chief security officer's craft, there was no immediate pursuit from the base.  For safety, El again obscured their true destination with a few minute's hop on another course, although this time, they had the luxury of ensuring that the route was safe first.  In the cabin, Raziel's remaining sounds of pain subsided.  James watched with interest as he picked the spray of bullets out of his arm into a refreshment tray beside the chair.  He'd offered to help, but out of a mixture of pride and confidence from prior experience, Raziel waved off his efforts. Some of the bullets had penetrated deeply.  The dull gleam of metal was visible through the perforated flesh.  Chase wandered from room to room, admiring the various luxury options.  If you're going to kill someone and steal their private shuttle, clearly, it pays to pick someone suitably high on the corporate ladder.  El wandered out of the cockpit, leaving the craft adrift in interstellar space.
  "So, I assume the Deneb system is our destination?" he asked the others.
  "Ka will be waiting for the decryption key," Chase pointed out.
  "The Resistance had a strong presence on Deneb, as it happens.  It was once a world settled by my people.  With luck, we should be able to open a link to Mintaka from there."
  "Deneb it is, then," James said.  El left to set the course.  "I know that you were a little rushed," he said, turning to Chase, "but were you able to narrow her location down beyond an entire star system?"
  "She was listed as transferred to a Hydra factory town.  What they wanted with her there is beyond me.  I did get coordinates for the building, at least."
  "Oh, good.  Wait, Hydra?  Hydra cybernetics?"
  "You know them?"
  "I used to sell some of their gear.  High quality stuff."  He blinked.  "It's a little disconcerting to think of them in the kidnapping and murdering business."  There was a shudder through the craft as its interstellar drive kicked on.
  "What sort of gear did they make?" Raziel asked from the chair.  He had finished cleaning his arm and was dressing the wound, gingerly flexing his fingers to ensure that he hadn't lost any functionality.
  "Oh... standard augs, usually physical enhancements.  Leg and arm work, I think.  They marketed a number of units for aerobic and cardiac coordination, too, and some other miscellaneous kits and parts.  Alice did work in nanotech and cybernetics, sort of, but it seems like a wierd way to recruit."
  "Maybe her research was too close to theirs?" Raziel speculated.
  "I doubt it.  Hydra has a thousand times the budget, resources, and manufacturing infrastructure that Alice ever had access to.  If they were ever directly competing financially, Hydra would crush her.  If they wanted to, they could buy and sell her."
  "I guess we'll find out soon enough," Chase remarked.

  They arrived in the Deneb system a number of days later.  James, Chase, and Raziel were much improved by a regimen of regular showering and sleep in actual beds.  Raziel's arm was healing in a makeshift cast, but slowly.  He estimated that he could use it for mundane tasks in another day, but it would probably not be combat-ready for a week or more.  Fortunately, Chase was able to reprogram him to swap his dominant hand.  Irrationally, James was jealous for a moment.
  Deneb had been one of the major population centers of El's species, a planet-wide city inhabited by some billion souls.  The war with humanity had hit heavily here.  Now, it was a conquered urban wasteland, an abandoned sprawl.  Hydra had bought the planet (and a sizable workforce of enslaved aliens) from Pegasus before the ashes had fully settled.  They had converted broad city blocks into factories, an industrial engine capable of producing enhancements for humanity.  Their products ranged from the standard civilian fare that James had sold all the way up to full mechs and advanced exoskeletons for Sphinx and Pegasus armies.
  The Resistance had found a plethora of hiding places in the complexity of the city's structures.  Hydra and its allies lacked both the means and the time to drive them out, so it had quickly become one of the central strongholds for the Resistance.  It was one of the few systems where Resistance members could freely walk in plain sight.  They even operated their own spaceport.  However, it also boasted one of the largest slave populations, as well.
  El, mindful of the craft that had been so helpful in making their escape from Rigel uneventful, was careful to broadcast his ship ID ahead to the Resistance port, to prevent them from being shot down on sight by their own side.  Unfortunately, the news of Gregory's demise had apparently outpaced them on the trip.  As they approached the gently spinning planet, an indicator on the cockpit flashed an urgent warning.  A squadron of Hydra fighters rose to meet them.
  Fortunately, they held two substantial advantages: their craft was much faster and it was much more heavily armed.  Chase took the co-pilots' seat again to serve as a gunner.  She launched a pair of missiles at the oncoming forces.  Keyed to the target's location transponder, the missiles pursued the lead craft as it ducked and rolled with inhuman agility.
  "Drone ships," El observed.  "No minds to interfere with, and no human reflexes to match.  Hm."
  The first missile exploded silently, successfully caught in a wake of flak released from the ship's rear.  The second connected in a solid hit.  Not having an atmosphere on board, the drone didn't detonate in a dramatic fireball.  Instead, its drive flickered and fell inert, and the craft's running lights darkened.  The rest of the drone squadron dodged its creening bulk and advanced, mechanically undeterred.
  El was using his ship's superior maneuverability to his advantage, dodging and weaving to keep the less agile craft from locking weapons on their hull.  Meanwhile, Chase sprayed bullets of deleted fuel behind them in a diffuse pattern, keeping the pursuing ships wary to close with them.  They were nearly to the atmosphere already, cruising in a gentle slope to the Resistance landing pad.
  Chase was just starting to worry about leading the enemy fighters to the landing pad when a beam of brilliant blue, perfectly straight, pierced the sky around them.  It bisected one of the drone ships behind them.  Two halves of the ship tumbled apart, catching flame as they hit the air below.  Another beam sliced off another ship's wing: it flew into an uncontrolled spin and drifted overhead, until Chase picked it off with an offhand shot.  The final craft dodged two bolts in sharp succession, only to spin directly into the line of Chase's main gun.  She brushed a line of bullets across its hull, puncturing vital systems and tearing the ship apart.
  Parts of starships rained down on the skyscraper tops below them, flaming like meteors.  El dropped their forward momentum into a more graceful descent.  They glided toward the pad's surface, landing gear extending to touch the ground below.

  The Resistance pad had been carved out of a public park.  A forest of octagonal landing pads hovered over what had once been a lawn of bluish grass.  One lifted out of an artificial lake, still full of water.  At the park's edge, a massive, abstract statue of glass and steel stood, like a faceted crystal.  Its upper half had been bombed off in one of wars of the distant past and scattered in pieces across an adjacent plaza.  The building fronts that faced the park were far from untouched themselves.  Some bore gaping wounds, holes and gashes torn through wall and floor and ceiling.  Others had wide window panes cracked and stained with smoke.
  Still, the park was a bustle of activity.  To James, it looked like an elementary school armed with heavy weaponry.  Childlike aliens bustled among ramshackle shelters, emerging from and disappearing into holes that poked through the park's surface to the administrative complex below.  He thought he spotted several of the cannon that had assisted their arrival.  They looked like massive piles of metal tubing jumbled into busy rectangles, with one long, thin tube extending beyond the mass, the whole assembly rotating freely on reflective discs.
  An expressionless alien waved their shuttle to one of the pads that was unoccupied and momentarily clear of foot traffic.  El and the three humans disembarked.  A trio of aliens emerged from the crowd to greet them.
  "Ka has been signalled.  He is waiting to speak to you."
  They followed the lead alien into the base below.  The tunnels had once served some sort of maintenance purpose for the park above, but the alien organization had expanded it drastically into a multi-level hive of activity.  James noticed directional markings on the walls as they passed.  When he asked, El read some of them to him: Logistics, Strategy, Provisions, Intelligence... The path they followed was marked Communications.
  The Communications bunker spanned several "blocks" of the tunnel system with long, low rooms, filled with aliens listening to headsets and operating switch boards.  Thick bundles of high-capacity network cabling lay across the floor and ran up the walls.  They picked their way over the obstacles into a conference room of sorts.  As promised, Ka was waiting, displayed on a low-fidelity, two-dimensional screen.
  "You actually made it to the Codex?" he said by way of greeting.  His voice had that peculiar flat quality that James had learned to associate with the aliens' emotional displays.
  Chase bypassed the comfortable chairs to sit in the corner, near a physical network access point.  "Uploading now."
  Ka opened and closed his mouth several times.  It seems they had actually caught him speechless.  El gave him a sharp salute.
  "It'll take months for the Pandora coalition to change all of their encryption keys.  And they've lost all access to whatever data was guarded by the keys that weren't replicated elsewhere.  Of course, it would have been better if they didn't know that you just delivered us access to nearly every human system in the galaxy."
  "Hey, we tried the quiet way," protested Raziel.
  "I'm not complaining.  You've dealt them a tremendous blow.  You've given the Resistance an unprecedented window of opportunity."  Ka looked thoughtful.  "We should press our advantage while we have the chance.  Toa, what do you think?"
  Their guide considered for a moment.  "If we act quickly, we can disable every Hydra mech on the planet.  Let's do it."
  El smiled.  "We found a lead on their missing friend, too," he added.
  "I have preparations to make," Toa announced.  He and Ka exchanged a salute, then Toa hurried from the room, double pace.
  "We started sharing the chip's payload with the engineering team on base as soon as we knew you were headed there.  They'll be expecting the key as well."  Chase nodded.  "Excellent, excellent.  That was a phenominal risk that you took on Rigel, you know.  I honestly wasn't anticipating seeing you four alive again."
  "We... did have some help," Chase admitted.
  "What do you mean?"
  "I couldn't crack their network," she explained.  "But something else could.  Someone saved our lives, and guided us straight to the Codex."
  Ka narrowed his eyes.  "Remember what I said about hidden agendas," he said after a pause.
  "I haven't forgotten," James said.  "I've been wondering about that quite a bit these past few days."
  "Still," Ka admitted, "it's difficult to see malice in an action that grants us such a tremendous advantage.  I suppose I don't mind if we're potentially clearing one human juggernaut out of the way to make way for another one.  As long as the second one doesn't enslaved my people.  Again.
  "One more thing," Ka continued.  "Deneb is not a renegade band struggling to remain undetected in the hills.  It will take time to mobilize, likely a day or two.  If I could give you some advice: try to find Alice before the attack launches in earnest.  It will be much easier to move about when the area isn't a battlefield.  Also, there is a high probability that they will execute any and all prisoners on base once the fighting starts, to keep us from gaining information by their release.  Vak is the head of the Deneb facilities and infiltration team.  Tell Toa what you intend, then report to Vak to get an entry vector to whatever coordinates you have."
  "Will do," James replied.
  "Thank you again for your assistance, Ka," Chase added, gratefully.
  "It is I who should be thanking you.  You have already given us a great gift, at no small danger to yourself."  Ka saluted them, then the connection was terminated.
  "I've shared the key," Chase reported.  "It's distributed among Resistance databases on seven star systems, now.  I just need to take it to the engineering team, then.  Do you want to meet with Vak and Toa?"
  "Sure," agreed James.  "Raziel?"
  "I will accompany you to establish our route," he said.
  "I'll join you to talk with Toa.  He might find our plans more agreeable if I'm along," El noted.
  They made plans to meet that evening to exchange news, and left to attend to their separate tasks.

  As she had expected, the engineering team here was an order of magnitude larger than the field team Chase had worked with on Mintaka.  They had an entire warehouse to themselves, and like any engineering space, it was full of toys.  Computers of every make and model littered the floor, power and network cables strewn haphazardly like spiderwebs.  The scents of solder and smoke hung in the air.
  The lead engineer actually had a beard, the first she'd seen among El's species.  His English was out of practice, but fortunately, his ability to read her thoughts directly made conversation awkward, not impossible.
  "I still feel more comfortable speaking out loud, if that's okay," she said.
  <It helps us, too,> the engineer said.  <Reading consciousness isn't like reading a book, you know.  You can't just lift a stream of consciousness from someone's head and expect it to flow like a conversation.  Even though we can only really see the impulses that cross the boundaries from your neurons to your implant chip, it's still a highly chaotic, fluid mass that we need to sift through.  Takes a lot of practice.  When you vocalize, you activate different circuits and it's much more linear.
  <I'm Lok, by the way,> he said.  Hesitantly, Lok extended a hand.  <I suppose you can't read our nametags.  I was born free.  Haven't had much contact with humans, so I apologize if my manners are not culturally appropriate.>
  "Your manners are fine," Chase said with a laugh.
  <So, business.  We finally finished receiving the chip contents from Mintaka this morning.  For less sensitive stuff, we can sometimes piggyback on Siren links, but they didn't want to risk it for something of this magnitude, so bandwidth was a little tight.>  Lok meandered through the room, leading Chase to a cluster of terminals positioned radially around a central column.  A team of a half-dozen engineers glanced up to acknowledge them before resuming their work.
  "I'm already uploading the chip's key to your system," Chase told them.  There was an untranslatable alien cheer from the team.
  <Excellent,> Lok thanked her.  <It'll still take us a while to actually decipher the payload, and then we'll need to try to divine what it actually does.  It's not a data storage unit, you know.  My best guess from the schematics we've seen is that it's some kind of control unit, but it's like no other control unit I've ever seen.  I hope you're not expecting instant answers, like Toa is,> he grumbled, good-naturedly.
  "Well, I'm not surprised," she said.  "If all goes well, we'll be pursuing a wetware lead that might give you some answers, too."
  <Good luck.  We'll get started right away, and we'll let you know as soon as we have any results.>  With a salute, he turned to his team and started to coordinate the decryption process.

  El led James and Raziel to headquarters, just a short walk through the busy tunnelways away.  Headquarters was one of the most polished rooms that James had seen on Deneb so far.  It was arranged like launch control for a spaceport.  Broad, curved tiers filled with industrious alien figures bustled with energy.  The far wall was covered with tall screens, showing video feeds that cycled among views of the perimeter of the Resistance base and surveillance cameras around various Hydra facilities and installations.
  The operations staff was a chaotic hive of alien activity.  Clusters of stern-faced aliens hovered around shared screens, planning tactical and strategic aspects of the upcoming battle.  James recognized Toa in the center of a circle of senior advisors, negotiating something in rapid staccato bursts of alien tongue.
  The humans waiting patiently for a few minutes until there was a suitable pause in the conversation.  Toa extracted himself gracefully, leaving the others to debate around what James could now recognize as a holographic map.
  "Yes?" Toa greeted them with just a touch of impatient energy.  "Have you delivered the key to Engineering yet?  If that chip has any information of tactical value, the sooner we have it, the more lives it saves."
  "Chase is doing so now," James said reassuringly.
  "We're here because we have another objective we would prefer to pursue before you launch your strike.  We wanted to verify that we wouldn't interfere with your operation."  Raziel spoke rapidly, measuring his words.
  "I'm listening," Toa said solemnly.
  El explained.  "Alice Lister is a human captive.  We've traced her whereabouts from her abduction on Earth a week ago to a Hydra installation here.  We'd like to attempt a rescue before the attack starts in force."
  "I see."  Toa pursed his lips.  "Forgive me if I fail to devote Resistance lives to the effort to save a human from the predations of other humans."
  "Understood," James said.  "We would probably have better luck with a smaller team, anyway."
  Toa turned to a nearby terminal, suspended its current display, and summoned a holographic map.  "What are her coordinates?"
  James connected and entered them.  The display blurred and panned across the landscape.  A marker appeared within a skyscraper in a cluster of high buildings, interconnected with cylindrical walkways.  Toa zoomed the view out, considering geography.
  "You will be in the path of our secondary assualt, as plans currently stand," he said thoughtfully.  "But that can work to your advantage.  If you time your approach to coincide with our primary, at dawn tomorrow, our forces will act as a distraction and pull security from that facility.  Then, when the second wave arrives, you can use our advance to cover your escape with the prisoners."
  "There was concern about Hydra killing captives the moment an attack was launched," James pointed out.
  "Vak, the facilities manager, should have a route that will take you to this block undetected, security force presence or not."  Toa tapped his finger through the display at street level by the building's base.  "If you move quickly, you should be able to enter the facility before they have an opportunity to hit the kill switch.  I understand that it's risky for your friend, but whatever you pulled on the Codex, you'd have difficulty getting in to this building with full security attention engaged.  My judgement tells me that this will be your best chance."
  "For what it's worth, I agree," Raziel added.
  "Your companion already has keys to the Hydra wireless network, so you should have a channel of communications with our Intelligence and vice versa.  Let us know if you see anything out of the ordinary."
  The team assented.  Toa returned to his council's argument.

  James and Raziel followed El's lead once more to the Facilities offices.  Facilities had claimed residence in a former office building, occupying several floors near the top of the tall structure.  Unexpectedly, they met Chase at the elevator door from the tunnels below.  Chase related her experience with Engineering as the elevator ascended, ticking off the floors.
  The elevator doors slid open to reveal a carpeted facility.  Evening sunlight streamed in through the windows that formed the building's exterior.  Outside, they were treated to a bird's-eye view of the cracked and ruined cityscape around them.  A reception desk facing the elevator was decorated with stylized alien glyphs identifying the department; a helpful alien directed them around the building's circumference to Vak's office.
  Vak sat in a stolen office chair, dwarfed by its human proportions, feet propped up on his desk.  "How may I help you?" he asked.
  James introduced the four of them and related their task.  Vak listented intently, then led them around the corner to a high-resolution map.  Other workers clustered around it, helpfully offering to operate the controls.  Chase entered the coordinates for their destination.  The display blurred and the latitude and longitude readouts scrolled.  Once again, the skyscraper cluster rose in the center of the viewport.  Vak watched intently, nudging the view around to get his bearings.
  "I would say that the easiest way to get you there would be the subway system," he announced.  He tapped a control and a tube running a twisted north-south path beneath the surface was highlighted with a soft orange glow.  "The station is here," a rectagular section adjacent to the tube joined its coloring, "just a block away from your target.  Hydra does have seismic triggers installed along the subway tunnels on the approach, here and here."  A symmetric pattern of crimson points punctured the tube's floor.  "But we can just run a subway car for you, stop it a kilometer away, and you could travel the rest of the way on foot easily.  Once you reach the station, don't take the street exit.  That's under heavy surveillance.  You'd call a small army of drones to your position from blocks around.  Not to mention that this boulevard is one of the primary conduits for mech transport to the perimeter."  A thin rectangle of orange crossed beneath the street's surface.  "There's a maintenance access corridor here that you can take instead.  The ladder at its other end will lead you into the alley behind your target."  The narrow alleyway that circumnavigated three sides of the skyscraper colored itself in.  "There should be a side entrance here that will be lightly guarded, at best.
  "Once you're inside, you'll be in the lobby.  Unless you're extraordinarily lucky, you will probably meet resistance here.  Either kill them, have El fog them, or try to pull the old 'We're the new janitors and we lost our ident cards' routine, whatever it is that you guys prefer.  Take the elevator at the rear of the lobby.  The floor that you want is the 37th, and once you're there, you want the lab on... this corner of the building, 12A."
  Vak gave the full route a final, self-satisfied look.  "Well, there's your path.  I'd estimate a total transit time of... forty-seven minutes, plus or minus five."
  As they thanked him for his time, Chase jacked in to the mapping system and downloaded the route to her HUD.
  "We're all set then," James said as they descended the elevator back into the Resistance hive.  "We should leave about an hour before dawn, then?"
  Raziel and El nodded agreement, and they left to find their quarters for the night.

  As promised, the four friends met at the Resistance-controlled subway entrance at the appointed time.  None of them had slept more than a few minutes.  Today, they would save their ally, and possibly other prisoners; and today, the war would begin.  The air was tense, and the aliens they passed throughout the tunnels seemed curiously subdued.  James had to keep reminding himself that it took conscious effort for their allies to show human emotion.  Even so, the atmosphere he sensed was that of the calm before a hurricane.
  The subway operator greeted them at the platform.  The ancient tunnels, inhospitably dark, vanished into gloom to the north and south.  A pair of guide rails were visible in the dim cone of illumination cast by the platform's lights.  A single subway car awaited their entrance.
  "It's been prepped with your course already, you should just have to man the throttle for the trip," the operator told them.  "Ah, and make sure that you're going at least fifty kilometers an hour once you reach North Junction."  Without an explanation, he disappeared back into the base.
  Raziel shrugged and approached the car's control cabin, but handed it freely over to El once he saw that the controls were, of course, written in alien script.  He joined James and Chase in the passenger section and took a seat.  El eased the throttle on steadily.  The island of light behind them quickly disappeared around the tunnel's many bends and dips.
  "What did he mean by that?  Is that an ambush point, or what?" James asked as they continued to accelerate.  Raziel had no answer but a shrug.  Chase loaded their predetermined path into her HUD for reference and watched the kilometer markers tick by.
  El was a little unnerved by the speed he'd been asked to maintain.  It was just beyond his reflexes to safely react to anything that appeared in the headlights.  Still, he kept a firm hand on the throttle.  The tunnel passed in a featureless blur.  Once, this route had been lined with safety lights and track guides, and regular stations would have marked the car's stops through the city, but today the tunnel was uninterrupted, uniform gloom.
  He saw North Junction as a brilliant light on the tracks ahead just before they reached it, and thankfully, they crossed its threshold before he had time to react.  A massive gash had been cut in the city's surface.  A gorge twenty meters across was lined with the ends of pipes, wires, and all of the other tunnels and structures that live beneath the city, sliced open for all the world to see.  A sewage pipe on the other side spouted a foul waterfall into the misty depths below.
  The subway's rail had not survived the impact.  It extended a few meters into the gorge and then ended abruptly.  By some chance, or perhaps by a later visit of the subway engineers, it had been bent slightly upward.  The car went careening off its end.  For a breathless moment, they were suspended in midair; then, with an impact that tossed James and Chase off of their tightly-gripped seats, the car landed neatly on the matching rail on the other side.  Raziel let loose a hearty laugh.
  Their destination was only a few minutes further up the tunnel.  The car decelerated smoothly, stopping mid-tunnel with hardly a bump.  James and Chase enabled infrared vision, and the four of them disembarked.  El was still shaking slightly.  <I can see why they didn't warn me,> he told the others silently.  <And I'm glad we're not going back that way.  I don't think I could make that jump again.>

  Chase paid close attention to the meters as they walked through the tunnel.  A few minutes later, she stopped them, and one by one they hauled themselves over the lip of the station's platform.  Everything was dark: wisps of webs left by the local equivalent of spiders dusted the ceiling.  A few tendrils of sunlight played tantalizingly on the broad stairs that led to the street above.  Mindful of Vak's advice, they eschewed that route.  Chase instead guided them to the maintenance hole that he'd chosen for them.  It was covered with a disguised hatch that none of them would have noticed without the assistance of the preprogrammed route.  With their combined strength, James and Raziel were able to operate the rusted mechanism and open it.  The tunnel beyond was small for a human, barely tall enough to crawl through.
  [Right.  Alien dimensions,] James observed.  [I hope nobody's claustrophobic.]
  <I'll go first,> El offered.  The others gratefully allowed him to take point.  He scampered easily into the port, turning around and beckoning.  <I'll even clear the cobwebs for you,> he said.  The humans followed on their hands and knees.
  Chase stopped El after they had travelled a uncomfortable distance.  The ladder that was outlined in her vision was just a few meters ahead.  They climbed up the rusted rungs, Raziel stretching as he climbed.
  The hatch at the top of the ladder was better-kept than the rest of the maintenance equipment and, fortunately, opened easily at El's touch.  They ascended into the narrow alleyway.  Trash and discarded cybernetics littered the floor here, overflowing from a nearby dumpster.  Raziel motioned to the others, and loped over to the building's corner.  He peered around its edge, gun in hand.  Satisfied that it was unoccupied, he waved the others forward.
  No sooner had he rounded the corner himself, he stopped dead in his tracks, face white, gun clentched in stiff fists.
  [What is it?] James asked, then stood beside him, curiosity sinking to dismay.  There was a body in the alleyway.  Even from here, it was clearly recognizable as Alice.

  By the angle that her head was hanging, it was evident that her neck had been snapped.  Her body showed no other signs of visible trauma.
  <At least she died quickly,> El told the others grimly.  <And without torture.  Others have not been as fortunate.>
  Raziel had knelt to examine the body.  [She's been dead for almost six days,] he transmitted to the group, emotionlessly.  [There was no way we could have made it here in time.]  James took little comfort in any of this.  He was sobbing quietly into Chase's shoulder.