Resistance

  The Resistance sanctuary that El had led them to was carved into a chain of natural caverns beneath the mountain range.  It was a little more entrenched than James was expecting to see, but on reflection, this particular installation had been around for at least a century and a half.  The paranoid in him had to admire the discipline that could keep a habitation as large as this one a secret for longer than he had been alive.  Flourescent lights lined the tunnel ceilings, the cavern walls were sanded smooth, and cement had been used to fill in inconvenient gaps in the walls and floor.
  El's brethren shared his childlike build.  Now that James and Chase knew that he wasn't human, they started to see the physiological differences in their companion: the proportions of his arms and legs were slightly off, his skin tone was just beyond the natural human range, and he blinked with an infrequency that made your eyes water once you noticed it.  Chase speculated that similarities in their overall body shape were either the product of convergent evolution or, more fantastically, a common ancestor.  El didn't know, but he responded to her question with the casual eloquence that she'd come to expect from him.  El was one of only a few of his race who were bald.  Most of the aliens they encountered throughout the halls and living spaces in the caves had sparse tufts of a hair or fur.  Violet was the most common eye color, although Chase noticed a few pale green and one light orange.
  Even after the initial shock wore off, living in close quarters with mind-reading aliens continued to give James lingering anxiety attacks.  Reassurances that it wasn't something that they did naturally, or without expending great effort, did nothing to calm his agitation, especially because they were wholly unsolicited.  Chase, on the other hand, was fascinated by their new allies.  As a hacker, the idea of browsing someone's consciousness struck a chord with her.  After all, it wasn't that much different from the way that she browsed hard drives.  She quickly became friends with the local engineering cabal and volunteered her hand at shoring up their digital defenses.
  They were given shares of power and provisions from the sanctuary's stores.  Power consumption and heat production had to be carefully regulated, lest they reach levels that Sphinx could sense through the rock.
  El acted as a guide, or a liason of sorts.  As far as they could tell, all of the aliens could speak English with the same easy fluency.  Language acquisition is a little easier when you can just lift it out of the subject's head and transfer it around wholesale.  El and his race had had centuries to do so.
  The tour around the caverns didn't take long.  Food here, weapons here, sleep here, and meetings in a wide amphitheater they'd rigged with A/V equipment.  James marvelled at the alien technology until he spotted the brand mark of a popular Asian manufacturer.  El didn't see the humor, but Chase was highly entertained.
  The apparent leader of the movement was a stern-faced wisp of an alien named Ka.  She gave her guests several days to acclimate before she met with them privately in her office.
  "Welcome to the resistance," Ka said somberly by way of a greeting.  "For centuries, we have waged war on representatives of your species.  It is always a pleasure to meet humans who aren't trying to kill and enslave us."  She extended a hand for a very human handshake.  "Please, have a seat."
  A low shelf had been carved from the rock wall.  James and Chase sat on it, cross-legged.
  "El tells me that you stole something from an Intech plant on Earth," she started.
  James opened the cavity on his arm and withdrew the chip.  The die was a short rectangle, only a few short centimeters to a side.  The wiring was too small for the human eye to perceive; a gold sheen permeated the green silicon, giving the chip an oily halo.  He held it up to the light, then handed it to the alien.
  Ka turned it over in her fingers, squinting.  "I have heard speculation this control chip could contain a storage unit that will finally give us a clue about the purpose of the Pandora project.  We've been intercepting comm chatter about Pandora for about twenty years now, but never with enough context to give us any clues about its nature.  You would think that it would be simple for us to learn human plans and motivations, but... over the years of conflict, your species has learned sophisticated protocols to prevent that very thing, and I'm afraid to say that they're most effective.  El may have mentioned shielding augmentations?  There has been much worry here that it's a new weapon, or a tool of subjugation for use against us.  That may be self-centered, but we need to consider the worst outcomes from our perspective, you understand."
  James nodded to indicate his comprehension.  Chase was staring at the chip as it spun in Ka's fingers.
  "Your engineers here are quite capable," Chase mentioned.  Ka bowed her head formally at the complement.  "Do you think that your team will be able to extract information from it?"
  "Time will tell, Chase.  But I would like them to make the attempt."
  Chase and James exchanged a look, then assented easily.  Ka nodded thanks.
  "One question," James said, half-raising his hand.  He briefly related the story of Alice's abduction, and the data center they had found holding files that documented many others.  "Do you know anything about these kidnappings?  Where they take the victims or what purpose it serves?"
  "No idea."  Ka blinked.  "The Mintaka IV colony is primarily a penal system, so I would expect that they were brought here... at least at first.  I do know that others of my species are quartered there as well.  El tells us that the slaves are used to perform extractions from other prisoners.  After that... some prisoners are executed, some are sent off again on outbound shuttles.  If there is a logic to it, we have not discovered it."
  "Do you keep records of the colony's activity?" James asked.  "Ships arriving and departing, communications, that sort of thing."
  Ka confirmed his speculation.  "Records department, second floor.  Any insights you could offer would be most welcome."
  With that, she thanked them for their time in a polite dismissal.  They exited the office.
  Chase brought the chip to the engineering team, who immediately started work probing its mysteries with an understated enthusiasm.  James spent the rest of the day pouring over records and transcripts for the past few weeks, plotting the ships that arrived from Earth on a timeline and listening to intercepted comm chatter captured in nearby intervals.  As Ka had said, operators were rigorously circumspect in word choice, and James found no meaningful slips in the transmissions he chose.  He did overhear several references to the Pandora levels of incoming prisoners.  Three of them were Pandora 7s; remembering the contents of the file that Chase had shown him, he marked those entries with a tentative "Possible?"

  The next day passed without incident or headway on either project.  The alien engineers were able to fabricate a makeshift interface module to the chip, and to produce a detailed map of the circuitry it contained.  When they projected the circuitry on the cavern wall, it covered the wall with grey ant-trails: they needed to magnify a single small region hundreds of times to be able to examine it and leave notes on each subcircuit.  It was laborous going, but El's people had patience to match their longevity.  The engineering team worked late into the night.

  On the second day, a Watcher stationed at the penal colony issued a high alert.  A craft was arriving at the main landing pad, and by the hurried preparations at the pad, it was not expected to be a friendly one.  Soldiers bustled around the pad, arranging crates into makeshift cover.  Several pairs of guards hauled what looked like anti-aircraft emplacements to the pad's edge.
  Ka and the assembled Resistance forces clustered in the amphitheater, watching the images projected on the cavern wall as the distant Watcher narrated.  After some discussion, it was decided to provide aid to the incoming ship.  "The enemy of our enemy is our friend," reasoned one of the fighters.
  "I'll go too," offered James, raising his hand.  Chase quickly assented as well, giving him a questioning glance.  "I have a strange feeling that I know who's on board."
  In total, about two dozen Resistance soldiers volunteered support, including El.  Apparently, a hundred years of incarceration had done nothing to dull his fighting spirit.  James and Chase followed the soldiers through the tunnels as they made preparations for the battle to come.
  "So, are you going to blur their minds from a distance, or something?" asked James.
  In response, El shouldered a missile launcher almost as big as he was.  "Something," he said, patting the launcher.  James grabbed a more conventional shotgun, but Chase left her hands free.
  After a busy minute with a flurry of activity, the Resistance forces reassembled in a cavern that James hadn't seen before, at the lowest point of the base.  A magnetic rail spanned the cavern's width and a series of low, flat carts hovered over it.
  "Our forces have discovered a network of abandoned mining tunnels that predate the war," El explained, as they carefully packed onto the carts' surface.  "The movement has not been idle in my absence," he remarked, pleased.  With a jolt, the carts shifted forward, then steadily accelerated.  There was a flash as they left the illuminated entrance cavern and entered the darkened tunnel.  Chase flipped on her night vision and watched the uneven tunnel walls cruise by.
  One of the aliens at the front of the first cart made adjustments to a small control box.  Soon, they came to a sharp Y in the rail, and seamlessly shifted tracks.  They covered the remaining distance to the Sphinx landing pad in minutes, the walls passing in a blur of motion.  Chase had her golden diamond configured to rest at the coordinates of the pad's center, which she'd read from the Watcher's visual feed.  She watched as the meters ticked down to the thousands, then the hundreds.
  There was a silent exchange of hand signals among the cart drivers.  At the next exchange point, two of the carts shifted to the right fork and two of them shifted onto the left, disappearing around the corner.
  The carts slowed and stopped in tandem with a sharp jerk.  The soldiers disembarked smoothly in the dark tunnel.  James and Chase followed them silently as they crept up an iron staircase.  James blinked as they emerged into the midmorning sun.  He found himself high on the mountain, overlooking a wide bowl of a valley.  An eclectic cluster of landing pads and ships spread across the valley floor below.  A dusty service road exitted the valley to the south.  At the pad's edge, five hovertrucks levitated with an electric hum.
  More hand signals passed between the two squad leaders.  The soldiers split and made their way down the gentle slope, using jagged protrusions of rock for cover.  Chase could see a flurry of frantic activity on the pad below: two more anti-aircraft emplacements had been wheeled into place during their journey.  She could see dark figures on the pad even with visible light.  One shielded his or her eyes against the dim sun, peering into the sky, waiting for their unwelcome visitor.
  [The strike waits for the shuttle to arrive,] El sent the humans, silently.  [We capitalize on the moment of maximum confusion.]  James nodded confirmation.
  [Cover me when the fight begins,] Chase told him.  [I have a feeling I'm about to get them seriously pissed off.]  In response, he disengaged the shotgun's safety and crouched beside her.  She was sitting cross-legged behind a rock some fifty meters from the pad's edge, her eyes closed in concentration.  James gave her a grim smile.
  Another ten minutes passed, silent and thick with tension.  James kept his finger on the trigger.  He happened to glance over at Chase just as she formed a self-satisfied smirk.  Somebody's day was about to get ruined, he thought.
  Sudden, urgent shouts sounded from the other side of the rock they crouched behind.  James lifted his gaze to the sky to see a star descending, brighter and brighter.  He noticed three things about the same time that the forces arrayed on the pad did: first, that the object falling toward them was on fire, dropping in free fall; second, that it was clearly not a shuttle craft; and lastly, that there were three others behind it.
  Only one of the anti-aircraft batteries got a shot off in time.  A rocket spiralled lazily into the atmosphere, striking one of the incoming fireballs.  A brilliant flash filled the sky, and billows of smoke blossomed from the impact point.  An uneven rain of flaming debree tore its way from the explosion.
  The first fireball struck the ground like an angry fist.  The shock of its massive kinetic discharge deafened James, lifted him, and bodily tossed him through the air, along with the rock they had been using as cover.  He barely managed to shield Chase from the pelting of debris that followed a moment later.  Their cover had been destroyed, but a worried glance back to the pad revealed that what was left of the pad's welcoming committee was already far too preoccupied to notice them.  Two of the three rocket emplacements had been destroyed in the first impact, and the enemy forces who had been closer to the impact point had been outright obliterated in the blast.  The surviving forces scrambled about the pads, frantically seeking cover from the remaining two projectiles.  Shouted orders echoed panic through the valley.
  El's forces, recovering from the blast themselves, took this as que to begin their own strike.  Gunfire criss-crossed the pad, cutting down a half dozen soldiers in the first moments.  A spiral of smoke traced a line over James' head as El discharged a missile from behind them into the fray.  James grabbed Chase by the arm and led her at a low sprint to higher ground.  The second meteoric impact still knocked them to the sandy earth, but at least this time the boulder they were braced behind remained intact.  James brushed them off.  Somehow, Chase was still online, eyes active under the lids.
  The opposing forces had already regrouped from the second strike.  Answering fire showered outward from the pad's perimeter.  Squads of dark uniforms filed up the gentle slope out of the valley.  James watched as half of an alien squad was cut down, peppered with bullets as the others scattered in hasty retreat.
  Three tall soldiers filed toward his hiding place.  Gunfire cracked the front of the boulder they crouched behind and ricocheted off of rocks behind them: they'd been spotted.  Taking a deep breath, James leaned out from his cover and pulled the trigger.  The leading soldier collapsed to one knee, but his companion took the opportunity to fire at James in turn.  A line of razor-sharp pain blistered on his arm as he ducked back, hyperventilating.
  James and the approaching forces noticed a wave of darkness cover the sky at the same moment.  They glanced upward as one.  One of the hovertrucks had driven itself up the slope, hover cushion on maximum repulsion, and now it was centered directly over the soldiers.
  The repulsion field cut out.  Three tons of truck flattened the soldiers in an instant.  Chase grinned as flicked her eyes open.  She shuffled the injured James behind their newly provided cover, just in time to hear the shock from the final projective strike at the pad behind them.  By now, the actual shuttle was visible above, descending to the ruined landing pads on a column of flame.  The other trucks were circling the pads, unattended, at full throttle, running down a half dozen unlucky soldiers who had been watching in the wrong direction.  The remaining emplaced rocket launcher spun unattended, firing rocket after rocket wildly around the pad.  Sparks showered from it as it overheated, its circuitry melting into mush.  A thin column of smoke lifted lazily from its inert shell.
  Most of El's forces had scattered out of the valley in different directions.  Bodies of cybernetic soldiers, and the occasional childlike alien, were spread across the uneven ground.  Smoke and dust swirled through the air.  Another of El's missiles caught a squad leader square in the back.
  The shuttle rotated gently to a horizontal orientation, then settled unevenly on ruins of the cracked and pocked landing pad.  A hiss sounded over the fray of battle as its exit ramp disengaged an airtight lock.  A dark figure dove through the ramp's opening and landed in a graceful combat roll, pursued by the omnipresent spit of gunfire.  The figure found a steady footing, revealed a weapon in each hand, and landed a handful of precision shots.
  [Raziel?] James sent, as the dust started to settle.  As rapidly as it had begun, the battle was over.  The swirling smoke came slowly to stillness, and the horrific wall of noise receded, leaving a piercing ringing in James' head.  With the adrenaline leaving his system, his arm gave him sharp pangs to remind him of his injury; glancing down, he saw an uneven flow of blood running down his forearm.
  Raziel stood, weapons held ready, and swung his head from side to side, scanning the battlefield.  Satisfied that the enemy had been routed, he holstered his guns and responded.  [James?]
  El and the surviving members of the raiding party gathered at the pad.  The three surviving squad leaders took rapid stock of their situation.  They had sustained moderate casualties, losing most of one squad and one or two members from each of the others, but estimated that the enemy had suffered a solid triple of the damage they did.  El returned the spent missile launcher to his back with a grim satisfaction.  "A century in prison does wonders for your fighting spirit," he commented.  James clutched his arm and didn't answer.
  Chase opened her eyes, wiped soot from herself, and surveyed her handiwork.  Three of the other trucks were toppled about the valley, one a smoking ruin.  She saw Raziel standing amid the wreckage and her eyes widened.  [Raziel!] she exclaimed in a digital broadcast.  [How did you find us?] she asked.
  [While I draw breath, I work to satisfy my contracts,] Raziel proclaimed.  The three of them united on the landing pad's edge.  Raziel, mostly untouched by the tumult, looked highly out of place amid the smoking chaos that surrounded him.
  El and one of the squad leaders approached the trio.  "Friends of yours?" the squad leader asked.
  "I'm their Guardian Angel," Raziel explained.  The leader gave a nod.  Apparently, that was enough of a credential to satisfy him.
  "We should get a move on," the leader said, with some urgency.  "Sphinx reinforcements will be arriving within minutes."
  Raziel pointed behind himself with a thumb.  "Want a lift out of here?" he said, indicating the shuttle.  "I took the liberty of disabling its GPS tracking unit on the way here.  If we move quickly, we could have our own ship."
  The leader hesitated, then shrugged and motioned his men into the craft.  They filed up the still-extended ramp.  Raziel sent a quick message to the deaf James and Chase, who followed as soon as they caught on to the plan.
  The ship's interior was one long room, with benches lining each wall.  James settled in the closest empty spot that he saw on the bench.  Chase had torn part of her shirt sleeve off and fashioned a makeshift bandage for his arm.  Fortunately, the bullet he'd taken had skimmed his arm, not lodging in it.
  Raziel took the cockpit once more.  The ramp rose and sealed itself shut with a snap.  With a low rumble, the shuttle lifted off the pad.

  Chase found herself able to hear properly again after about an hour's flight.  Raziel and the alien were conferring in the partially open cabin at the shuttle's front; it sounded like he and the alien were conferring to decide on a place that they could reasonably expect the shuttle to remain hidden.  Raziel kept the shuttle low to the mountaintops, maneuvering the craft deftly around the occasional peak.  James's arm had stopped bleeding, and he seemed to be recovering well enough.  Chase stood up and walked to the front of the craft to see where they were going.
  The shuttle was currently crossing a wide sea of lightly steaming liquid.  Ahead, dark clouds rolled in a heavy wind storm, forks of lightning piercing the dusty morass.  "There's a dust plain on the far shore that should have enough room to comfortably land the ship.  The storm should provide cover from Sphinx sensors, and we have an installation in the mountains nearby that should be conveniently close."
  A minute later, the storm engulfed them.  The craft's drive had to work harder to stabilize them as the winds buffeted the craft, but the passengers never felt a pitch.  As predicted, Raziel's controls fluctuated wildly.  He brought them below the cloud level, found the plateau by eye, and gently lowered the craft.  It touched the sandy floor with the slightest of bumps.
  Wind-blown sand cut their exposed skin as the squads made their way across the open plain.  An entrance to the Resistance base was concealed nearby; the squad leader entered a code on a camouflaged control panel and part of the rock wall gently dilated open.  He waved the wounded through first, then the rest of the party.  They marched through the smooth, brightly lit corridor as it sloped gently upward, into the mountain.  "South Continent primary base," announced El to his human companions.
  This base was much like the one they'd departed from earlier that day in construction, but much larger.  As they made their way into the more populated center of the installation, James estimated that a few hundred Resistance members called the South Continent base their home.  The party's first priority was to escort the wounded to the local infirmary.  The infirmary staff, startled by the sudden influx of newcomers, quickly recovered their poise and began tending to their duties.  Most of the non-fatal wounds were relatively minor: shrapnel strikes, bruises and fractures.  There were a few nastier injuries that Chase privately speculated might not be recoverable, but with alien anatomy, she had no way to tell.
  Something about the infirmary made James subtly uneasy, until the reason occurred to him.  Wartime hospitals are supposed to have an air of suppressed tension, but while the aliens here appeared humanoid enough to make the analogy clear, the social cues and emotional displays that he was subconsciously expecting were nowhere to be found.  The doctors and nurses operated with an unnatural calm that seemed utterly out of place.  El seemed to show the most emotion to he and Chase of any of the aliens they'd interacted with, but even his behavior was marked with unnatural stoicism.  What's more, El had shown only the slightest signs of distress from his century of prison.  James reminded himself that he couldn't really trust whatever emotion he read in his companions.  The aliens had learned the rules of human emotional display by rote, acquiring it with the rest of human culture.
  The survivors from the landing pad skirmish were welcomed by their unanticipated hosts and filed in to a meeting room with a long table.  A projection screen was placed at the table's end.  James, Chase, and Raziel had been saved places near the head of the table.  As the aliens assembled, El explained under his breath that the base established communications with the outside world via underground conduits and repeater stations.  The connection was encrypted, but of course tapping was always a risk.
  The noises of shifting seats died down.  The South Continent base commander stood and introduced himself as Bac.  Bac was the tallest of the aliens that James or Chase had met yet, and the most obviously otherworldly.  His proportions were noticably inhuman: elongated arms and legs sprouted from a too-short torso, which supported his slightly oversized head.  Bac applauded their victory and their initiative in taking the shuttle.  The Resistance did have a small fleet stationed on Mintaka, but it had suffered heavy losses in a battle the previous year.  The shipyard was still in shambles and only a few craft were currently spaceworthy.
  Bac mentioned that there was a certain risk of the shuttle being tracked.  Raziel reassured him that he had disabled the tracking device, but Bac was unconvinced.  Sphinx would be unhappy about the theft, and if it was coming, retribution could be devastating.  The screen flicked to life.  Watchers stationed at vantage points around the nearby mountains reported in as Bac summoned them.  Guttural clicks of alien speech sounded from each Watcher.  They were clear so far, but Bac warned them to increased vigilance.
  Next, without ceremony, Ka appeared on the display.  "Well done on the landing pad," he said.  "We haven't had many battles turn that strongly in our favor as of late.  Every victory is a welcome one.  Having an Angel assigned to an ally of ours is a powerful asset."  Raziel nodded modestly.  "The Resistance couldn't muster funds for one otherwise.
  "Which brings me to two things that have been bothering me about your experiences, since you left," Ka continued.  "First: how did you get the coordinates for the Intech data warehouse?  Second: who purchased Raziel's services on your behalf?  The first is an action that could be taken by a disgruntled employee, for example, but the second required funds that none of us will ever see in our lifetimes.  A disgruntled employee who embezzled a truckload of cash?"
  "I've been wondering that myself," Chase commented.  "I didn't want to press the issue, or... take other actions to discover that information.  There is a human proverb about accepting gifts ungraciously.  Also, it would put our Angel in an uncomfortable position, loyalty-wise."  Raziel blinked, bemused.
  "The question is more than merely academic," Ka said, a little sternly.  "You and Chase seem to be caught in the midst of a struggle between two gargantuan forces, Resistance or no.  We don't understand the agenda of the Pandora alliance.  But we have even less of an idea what the goal of your mysterious supporter is.  As a member of an enslaved race, I would strongly caution you about acting as willing pawns in someone else's game."
  "I'm trying to find Alice," James said simply.
  "Why?"
  James paused for a moment, solemnly.  "Because if I don't, then nobody else will."
  Ka considered that with a blank face.  After a noticable delay, he smiled.
  "In any case, I do have news, both good and bad.  The good news is that our engineering team has constructed a harness to interface with the chip you brought us.  They have had access to its storage unit for about three hours now."
  "And the bad news?" Chase asked.
  "They can't make any sense of the data they're finding."  Ka's image was replaced by a feed of what was presumably the chip's contents.  Static filled the screen, then characters flashed across, with no discernable pattern.  Chase leaned forward and watch intently until Ka appeared once again.
  "Encryption," said El.  Ka nodded.
  "We'll send you a dump of the data.  But if our characterization of the encryption scheme is correct, our team won't be able to decipher it for decades."
  For a human, an estimation like that typically implied giving up.  It occurred to James that, for these creatures, it didn't.
  Chase and several attendees wasted no time connecting themselves to the local network.  Data streamed over the contact point.  The chip's payload was tremendous; it would likely take multiple hours to complete the transfer, especially as noisy as the connection was.  Chase adjusted her posture into a comfortable cross-legged pose.
  "I know where the key is," Raziel announced, suddenly.  The alien's faces went flat for a moment.  James realized that they had been genuinely startled.  "I have had dealings with Intech before," he said carefully.  "They contract physical security to Sphinx, but like the rest of the alliance, they contract data security to Siren.  Siren maintains an installation on Rigel III -- specifically, on its second moon.  Within the installation is a database known as the Codex.  The Codex contains an archive of all private keys issued by Siren, corporate or personal.  As you might imagine, it is one of the most heavily guarded rooms in human-controlled space.  But if the key exists, it is stored there."
  "Don't they have a copy at Intech?" asked James.  "Surely it would be easier to steal from them."
  "Not any more," Raziel answerd grimly.  "The instant you left the premises with that chip, the key was shredded from every storage device in the solar system.  Siren never complies with deletion orders, though.  Siren takes data seriously."
  "How do you know of this?" El asked.  His face was motionless.
  "Because I guarded the Codex for ten years."
  Silence ruled the room.
  Bac was the first to speak.  "Gaining access to the Codex requires tremendous risk and manpower.  I cannot condone it as a rational course of action for the Resistance."
  "I'll do it," James said.  From her place on the floor, Chase gave a wry grin.
  "I'll go with him," El said, unexpectedly.  "Can you imagine the damage to the alliance if we get those keys?  If the human is willing to try, then so am I."
  "I won't stop you, of course," Bac said.  "But be aware that you'll have no backup if you proceed.  It's unlikely that you'll be lucky enough to end up in prison, this time, El."  El waved his hand in a very human gesture of dismisal.  James was beginning to suspect that their correspondant was a reckless bastard by alien standards.  He made a mental note to ask how El had ended up in prison in the first place.
  With that, the meeting began to break up.  Ka wished them luck and signed off, leaving the transcontinental chip transfer active.  Bac left for other responsibilities and the surviving squad leaders began a post-mortem of the days' battle.  James, Raziel, and El ducked out, leaving Chase to hear their conversation transform to native tongue mid-sentence.  She found the noises somewhat soothing as she read a novel on her HUD, a progress bar inconspicuosly highlighted in her peripheral vision.

  "You worked for Siren, then?" asked James, as they were led to their assigned quarters.  El had vanished down a side corridor, presumably to reunite with friends here that he hadn't seen for over a century.
  Raziel confirmed this with a steady nod of his head.  "For ten years, I was employed by Siren.  Before that, I was a freelancer, and yes, before you ask, I took jobs from Sphynx and Intech, as well as the Illuminati and the mob.  Since the fulfillment of my contract with Siren, I took my current position with Guardian Angels."
  James was silent.
  "I know that you don't trust me," Raziel said.  "You are not required to trust me.  I take my contract seriously, and you have my word and my bond that I will protect you, Chase, and El to the best of my abilities, whatever you think of my motivations."  He paused, a pained look crossing his features.  "I haven't forgotten Spade, either.  I am neither omnipotent nor invincible."
  They walked down the corridor for a moment.
  "Wasn't telling us about the Codex a breach of your prior contract?" James asked.
  "Technically, no.  The Codex's existence and even its location were not covered by any of the non-disclosure terms in my contract."  Raziel hesitated.  "It was probably a breach of professional conduct, or at least impolite of me.  Also, I expect that Siren would arrange to have me killed for it, legal or no."
  "That's right," remarked James.  "This little suicide mission of ours makes it considerably harder for you to keep us alive.  Whatever possessed you to suggest it?"
  Raziel made no answer for such a long time that James assumed he wasn't getting one.  Presently, they arrived at the door to James and Chase's room.  The door dilated open at James' touch.
  "I knew Alice too," Raziel answered, suddenly.  "A long time ago."  James stopped in the door frame and turned to look at him, searchingly.  Raziel, lost in his thoughts, turned and walked away.
